# What is a Role-Playing Game (RPG)?

## **What is a Role-Playing Game (RPG)?** 

_Role-Playing_ means _to act out a role_ . A role-playing game (RPG), as the name suggests, progresses by having each participant in the game play out an assigned _role_ . 

Participants in an RPG can be roughly divided into two groups: One is the **game master** ( **GM** ), while the other are the **players** . RPGs are played by several people, but there is only one game master while the rest are the players. 

Before playing a game, the game master must prepare what’s called a **scenario** . You may either create your own, or you may use an existing one. A number of scenario collections have already been produced for _Sword World RPG_ , and will continue to be released in the future. 

The game proceeds according to a prepared scenario. The game master is the one who facilitates the scenario, while the players _play the role_ -- of the **characters** --in the scenario. If you think of the game master as a director and the players as actors, it's similar to making a movie or a play. 

However, there is something that’s very different from film or theater. Which is: the players do _not_ know the scenario. They _only_ know the characters they’re taking on.  The players must make their characters act based on their abilities and characteristics. The game master's scenario does _not_ provide any dialogue, etc., for the characters. 

Let's give a real example. **GM** is the game master, and **A** , **B** , and **C** are different players. 

**GM** ： You guys were traveling and you arrived at a small village. You're now resting at a tavern now that the sun is setting. Then, about five or six unsavorylooking people enter. They start to have fun by making nasty remarks at the 

poster girl at the bar, much to her annoyance. 

**A** ： That doesn't sound good... okay, I'll give them a little warning. 

**B** ： Come on, if you get yourself hurt, you'll look like a fool. Just ignore them. 

**A** ： What do you mean? That would soil the name of a hero of justice! 

**B** ： You're the only one who thinks he’s a hero of justice, aren't you?” 

**C** ： .......say, is the poster girl pretty? 

**GM** ： She is. 

**C** ： What do the thugs look like? 

**GM** ： They have very dirty leather armor and shortswords. 

**B** ： They sound like bandits. That Thieves Guild scares me. 

**C** ： Even I have the backing of the Thieves Guild (laughs). These guys don't seem like a big bunch, so I say we be "heroes of justice". Hey you guys, leave her alone! 

**A** ： That's my line! 

**B** ： I’ll just pretend I’m not with you guys… 

**GM** ： But you're all sitting at the same table, so I don’t think they’ll believe you. (laughs) One of the thugs, who looks particularly rough, snarls “What, you have the gall to complain about us - the Brando family?!”. 

**B** ： Uh-oh... we're in trouble… 

**A** ： Bring it on! 

Thus, the game proceeds. In this case, the scenario prepared by the game master does _not_ say _there will be a fight with thugs (the Brando family)_ . It only says _thugs will misbehave in the tavern_ , then it's up to the players to decide what they'll do about it. If the players were all like player **B** , there would've been no conflict. The conflict only arose because 

the players wanted it. So, what will be the outcome of this fight? 

Here is where another major feature of role-playing games comes into play. That is… 

Not knowing what the results will be. 

That is to say: 

Neither the game master nor the players know whether the characters will be able to kick the thugs out of the tavern and become _heroes of justice_ , or get beaten by the thugs and instead become _heroes of comedy_ . 

Even in real life, if you start a fight, you won't know who will win without actually fighting. The only thing you should know is _Who is considered stronger?_ . 

Role-playing games reproduce this uncertainty through random numbers (mainly dice) and numerical values representing character attributes. 

In other words, based on a number that represents a character's strength, a result is determined by rolling the dice. 

Sometimes it’s like this: 

**Player** ： (rolls) Hey, I got a good roll, my attack is a hit! 

Other times, it’s like this: 

**Player** ： (rolls) Agh, my roll was bad. My attack failed! 

In this way, due to two types of randomness, _player's choice_ and _random numbers (dice)_ , the actual game can display a wide degree of fluctuation, sometimes the "story" will evolve beyond the expectations of the game master. 

In a role-playing game, you can create a story, as well as enjoy the story as a spectator. 

If you enjoy the story in this way, you can say that you've experienced the best part of a role-playing game. 

5