## **1.4** 

## **Character Creation** 

Now it's time to show you how to create a _player character_ who will explore Forcelia as the player's alter ego. 

Please prepare Character Sheets. You may photocopy the one at the end of this book (photocopying is permitted for personal use only). 

A Character Sheet is used to write down various information about a character during the course of the game. It is designed to assist in character creation as well. 

## **1.4.1** 

## **Choose a Race** 

First, the player character's race must be chosen. There are five types to choose from: human, dwarf, grassrunner, elf, and half-elf. Each race has their own characteristics and limitations. Each also has strengths and weaknesses in the ability scores that form the basis of the character. 

## 【 **Human** 】 

Humans have the most average ability scores and can do almost anything without a hitch. They have no restrictions on skill selection. This is probably the most suitable race for a beginner to choose. 

## 【 **Dwarf** 】 

Dwarves excel in strength, life force, and mental power. On the other hand, they tend to be less agile and less intelligent. In terms of skills, sorcerer and shaman cannot be chosen. 

## 【 **Grassrunner** 】 

Grassrunners have excellent dexterity, agility, and mental power. Their strength, on the other hand, is decidedly inferior. Their intelligence and life force are average. Rune master skills cannot be acquired. At the same time, 

their low strength does not let them benefit much from acquiring the fighter skill. It's a good idea to advance the thief skill acquired from the beginning. 

If they were raised by elves, there is a restriction that they cannot acquire the priest skill. On the other hand, if they were raised by humans, there is no limit on acquiring skills. 

## 【 **Elf** 】 

## **Example:** 

Elves excel in dexterity, agility, intelligence, and mental power. On the other hand, their strength and life force tend to be low. There is a restriction that they cannot acquire the priest skill. It would be better to advance the shaman skill acquired from the beginning, or to acquire the sorcerer skill. They are also a suitable race for thief. They're not very suitable for fighter. 

Now, let's create a character through a real example. 

First, a race must be chosen. Here, we've chosen a human, with average ability scores and no restrictions on skills. 

## **1.4.2** 

## **Determine Ability Scores** 

Once you've chosen a race, you can determine your ability scores. First, you must roll the dice to determine **subability scores A~H** . 

## 【 **Half-Elf** 】 

Half-elves are halfway between human and elf in terms of ability. Therefore, their dexterity, agility, intelligence, and mental power are slightly higher, while their strength and life force are slightly lower. However, they do not deviate very far from the average and are fully capable of handling all skills. 

Table 1-3: Determining Sub-Ability Scores shows how to determine subability scores for each race. 

A character's six ability scores are each the totals of two of these eight subability scores. 

|**dexterity**<br> **agility**<br> **intelligence**<br> **strength**<br> **life force**|=**A**+**B**<br>=**B**+**C**<br>=**C**+**D**<br>=**E**+**F**<br>=**F**+**G**|
|---|---|
|**mental power**|=**G**+**H**|

Depending on whether a half-elf was raised by humans or elves, the skills they have from the start and the limitations on the skills they can acquire differ. 

**Table 1-3: Determining Sub-Ability Scores** 

|Sub-AbilityScore|Human|Dwarf|Grassrunner|Elf|Half-Elf|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|A|2D|2D+6|1D+6|1D+6|1D+4|
|B|2D|1/2D|2D+4|1D+6|1D+6|
|C|2D|1D+4|1D+6|1D+6|1D+4|
|D|2D|1D|1D|1D+6|1D+6|
|E|2D|1D+4|1/2D|1D|1D+2|
|F|2D|1D+6|1/2D|1/2D|1D+2|
|G|2D|2D+4|2D+6|1D+4|1D+4|
|H|2D|2D+4|2D+4|1D+6|2D|

On the table, "D" stands for _dice_ . 1D stands for _one die_ , 2D stands for _two dice_ and 1/2D stands for _half the result of one dice (rounded up)_ . In addition, a notation such as 1D+6 means _to roll one dice and add 6 to the result_ . 

17 

**Table 1-4: Average Ability Scores by Race** 

|AbilityScore|Human|Grassrunner|Dwarf|Elf|Half-Elf|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Dexterity|14|20.5|15|19|17|
|Agility|14|20.5|9.5|19|17|
|Intelligence|14|13|11|19|17|
|Strength|14|4|17|5.5|11|
|Life Force|14|15|20.5|9.5|13|
|Mental Power|14|24|22|17|14.5|

**Table 1-5: Backgrounds** 

|2D|Background|StartingSkills|Exp. Pts.|Money|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|2|Savage|Fighter 1 & Ranger 1|2000|2Dx100|
|3|Rune Master|Sorcerer & Sage 1|2000|2Dx200|
|4|Villain|Tief 1|2500|2Dx200|
|5|Traveler|Bard 1|3000|2Dx200|
|6|Hunter|Ranger 1|3000|2Dx200|
|7|Ordinarycitizen|General skill level 3|3000|2Dx200|
|8|Merchant/Scholar|Merchant 3/Sage 1|3000|2Dx200|
|9|Mercenary|Fighter 1|2500|2Dx200|
|10|Priest|Priest 1|2500|2Dx200|
|11|Curse Specialist|Shaman 1|2000|2Dx200|
|12|Noble|Fighter 1 & Sage 1|2000|2Dx500|

Once ability scores are determined, sub-ability scores are _never_ used during the game. 

Once the ability scores have been determined, also find the ability bonuses and write them down on the Character Sheet. 

For reference, the average ability scores of each race are shown on Table 1- 4: Average Ability Scores by Race. 

An ability bonus equals the ability score divided by 6 (rounded down), as shown under 1.1: Ability Scores. 

## **Example:** 

Now, let's determine ability scores. Since our race is human, all we have to do is roll 2D, that's two dice, from A-H, all the way down. 

## **Example:** 

For this character being created, the bonuses are dexterity +2, agility +2, intelligence +2, strength +2, life force +3, and mental power +2. Since the average human ability score is 14, **+2** is a very average ability bonus. This character can be considered fairly mediocre except for the excellent life force bonus. 

Our rolls are 9, 7, 5, 8, 6, 8, 10, and 4. These can be considered average, with neither extremely high nor low rolls. 

|As a result, the ability|scores are|
|---|---|
|dexterity:|9+7=**16**|
|agility:|7+5=**12**|
|intelligence:|5+8=**13**|
|strength:|6+8=**14**|
|life force:|8+10=**18**|
|mental power:|10+4=**14**|

The average for a human is 14 in all ability scores, so other than a slightly higher life force, this character seems to be pretty average. 

## **1.4.3 Starting Skills and Starting Experience Points** 

Even an adventurer who goes on an adventure for the first time is not a baby. As long as they've lived a certain number of years, they must have had some experience before entering the life of an adventurer. Once ability scores have been determined, the next step is to determine the adventurer's preadventure experience. This is represented by **starting skills** and **starting experience points** . 

## **For Humans and HalfElves Raised by Humans** 

If the race is human or half-elf raised by humans, use Table 1-5: Backgrounds. Roll 2D and look at the appropriate row. 

If the player's background is _ordinary citizen_ (roll 7), they must consult with the game master to determine one general skill appropriate for the character and acquire it at 3rd level. At this time, both the game master and the player should clearly know what the chosen general skill can do (the abilities that can be used with that general skill). 

If the player's background is _merchant/scholar_ (roll 8), they must choose either 3rd level in the merchant skill or 3rd level in the sage skill for their character to acquire. If a character has acquired the merchant skill, they must _always_ come from the merchant background. If they've acquired the sage skill, they can choose to come from _either_ the merchant _or_ scholar background. The _backgrounds_ table does not always have to be used. Players may, if they so choose, create a character as if they were always an _ordinary citizen_ . If they wish to have a special background such as _noble_ or _rune master_ , they may discuss this with the game master. These are placed on rows of the background table that are difficult to roll, and so they’re given preferential treatment in 

18 

**Table 1-6: Starting Experience by Race** 

|Race|Restrictions／Special Abilities|Pre-Adventure<br>Exp. Pts.|Money|
|---|---|---|---|
|Human|⬤Refer to the_backgrounds_table (Table 1-5)|Same as above|Same as<br>above|
|Dwarf|⬤Has 5 levels in a crafsman skill<br>⬤Can see in the dark<br>⬤Unable to acquire the shaman or sorcerer skill|3000|2D x 300|
|Grassrunner|<br>⬤Has 1 level in the ranger skill<br>⬤Has 1 level in the thief skill<br>⬤Can communicate with plants and insects<br>⬤Cannot acquire anyrune master skills|3000|2D x 200|
|Elf|⬤Has 1 level in the shaman skill<br>⬤Cannot acquire thepriest skill|2000|2D x 200|
|Half-Elf|⬤When raised by elves, characteristics are the same as<br>elves, when raised by humans, they're the same as<br>humans.|<br> <br>Same as above|Same as<br>above|

terms of experience points. Such special backgrounds are not allowed without the game master's permission. 

In practice, however, this is a good time to decide. This is because the part of the process that uses random numbers for character creation has just been completed. Wouldn't it be a little sad if, after first picking a name, the ability scores didn't fit the image of that name? 

## **For Races Other Than Humans** 

For races other than human (except for half-elves raised by humans), the starting skills and experience points are determined by race (Table 1-6: Starting Experience by Race). **Example:** 

Conversely, once the ability scores are created and the character's initial experience is determined, you can usually get an impression of the character. This should make it easier to decide on the age, gender, and name of the character. In _Sword World RPG_ , these are not related to the numeric aspects of the game. In other words, it is assumed that there are no differences or changes in ability based on gender or age. Of course, no matter what name you choose, it will not affect their abilities. 

Since the character we're creating is a human, we'll use the _backgrounds_ table. Our roll is "9". The character ended up coming from the _mercenary_ background. Therefore, we'll have 1 level in the fighter skill as our starting skill, and 2500 starting experience points. 

In addition, money is listed as 2Dx200. This means we roll 2D and have money (in **gamels** ) equal to the result times 200. The result of our next 2D roll is _6_ . The character has 1200 gamels. 

## 《 **Age** 》 

However, you’re not completely free to decide on age. It is basically impossible to play as a child who has not fully grown both physically and mentally, or an old man who is clearly on the physical decline. In addition, in _Sword World RPG_ , newly created characters are _green youths_ , so to speak, who don’t have much experience. Therefore, making them _too old_ poses a problem in this sense as well. 

## **1.4.4** 

## **Age, Gender, Name** 

A character must be given a name, and their age and gender must be decided. These things may be decided at any stage of character creation. You can decide at the beginning. 

When deciding on the age of a character, it should be between 15 years old and around 30 years old at most for a human. The life span of a human is about 100 years old. Of course, it's natural that they'll die earlier than this if they're ill or wounded. In Alecrast, the average life span of a human is about 50 years due to underdeveloped medical care. 

## 《 **Ages of Each Race** 》 

For races other than humans, consider age as follows. Even for different races with long life spans, the rate of growth to adulthood is not much different from that of humans. Therefore, once they reach around 20 years of age, they are physically fit enough to embark on an adventure. 

However, it is one thing to be physically mature and another to be socially recognized as an adult. In Japan, where we live, we are considered adults at the age of 20, but there are some actions that are recognized as adult at the age of 18. There was a time when the socially accepted age of adulthood was about 15 years old, and even younger. Whether or not a person is recognized as an adult is not only a matter of physical growth, but also a matter of social judgment. 

In the human societies of _Alecrast_ , 15 years old is considered to be the age of adulthood. However, in the societies of other races, you basically have to be older to be considered an adult, and the longer the life span of the race, the later they tend to do so. 

As a result, the time for characters of other races to be recognized as adults and have the opportunity to go on adventures will be significantly later than it is for humans; around 30 years of age for dwarves, 40 years for grassrunners, and 100 for elves. 

Half-elves, if raised in human society, are treated as adults at around age 15, just like humans. This is because it’s considered common sense in human society. In elf society, it’s a little later. However, because they are clearly known 

19 

to have a shorter lifespan than elves and because they are essentially detested, they are not made to wait until they are 100 years old and are forced out of society at around age 30. 

Use this as a guide when deciding on the age of a character of another race. 

## 《 **Gender** 》 

As mentioned before, _Sword World RPG_ treats men and women as having no difference in ability. Therefore, the choice of gender is completely free. 

Even races other than humans have two genders, male and female, exactly the same as humans. Also consider the differences in appearance between men and women, as well as the differences in the division of roles in society, to be equivalent to those of humans. 

## 《 **Name** 》 

Naturally, a character must have a name. It's not convenient to enjoy the fictional world of Forcelia if they're always called by the player's name or just _hey.... you_ . 

Therefore, a character should be given a name that is appropriate for Forcelia. 

When deciding on a name for a character, it is usually best to stick with a basic western-style name. After all, the names of most people in _Alecrast_ , the setting of _Sword World RPG_ , are like that. Purely Japanese or Chinese names are not suitable. 

In _Alecrast_ , first name, then last name are usually written in that order. In rare cases, a middle name may also be added between the first and last names. Alternatively, it's acceptable to simply decide on a first name and leave the last unspecified, or to use a nickname or alias, as is often used by thieves. 

## **Example:** 

Let’s decide on the age, gender, and name of the character we're creating. Since they're a human, their age will be around 15~30 years old. This 

This should be understood as _purchasing skills with experience points_ . 

character comes from the _mercenary_ background, so being too young is not an option. Therefore, the age should be a little higher, like around 24. 

It is also possible to increase the level of skills that have already been acquired. You may even acquire 2 or more levels at a time, so long as there are enough experience points to spend. Note, however, that experience points are spent at each level attained. For example, if you do not have the ranger skill and you want to acquire 2 levels in ranger at once, you must spend 500 + 1000 for a total of 1500 experience points. 

Either gender is acceptable. Here, we'll put _man_ . Although there are many women who fight in Forcelia, mercenaries will probably still have a higher percentage of men. 

As for the name,  it’s up to the player to decide on a name. You may follow your own sensibilities, or you may borrow the name of a real westerner. In this section, we'll use _Ducard Sample_ `Ⅱ` (the second), though it's not a very sensible name. 

If you have enough experience points, you can acquire multiple skills. 

Only adventurer skills can be acquired or increased using experience points. General skills cannot be acquired or increased with experience points. 

## **1.4.5** 

## **Character Growth via** 

In addition, starting experience points do not have to be used up. Leaving them in place will give you an advantage in the growth of your character after the game. 

## **Starting Experience Points** 

A character has already acquired certain skills (starting skills) according to Table 1-5: Backgrounds or Table 1-6: Starting Experience by Race. In addition to this, starting experience points can also be used to acquire new skills or increase a character's skills. 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II has 2500 experience points. With these, for example, we could acquire 1 level in sorcerer (25002000= _500_ remaining) or increase fighter to 2 levels (2500-1500= _1000_ remaining). In addition, we can even acquire 2 levels in thief at once (2500-1000-1500= _0_ remaining). 

However, the skills that can be acquired or increased are limited to those of adventurer skills, and general skills _cannot_ be acquired or increased. 

The experience points required to increase a skill are shown in Table 1-7: Experience Points by Skill (at Character Creation). 

Here, we'll increase fighter to 2nd level and also acquire 1 level in ranger. This leaves us 500 points, which we’ll save for future use. 

Characters can spend their starting experience points to gain skill levels. For example, if you want to acquire 1 level in ranger, you can do so by subtracting 500 from your starting experience points. 

**Table 1-7: Experience Points by Skill (at Character Creation)** 

|Attained<br>Level|Sorcerer & Sage at the same<br>time|Sorcerer|<br>Sorcerer<br>(with<br>Sage)|Shaman|Fighter<br>Tief<br>Priest|Ranger<br>Sage<br>Bard|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|2000|2000|1500|1500|1000|500|
|2||||2000|1500|1000|
|3||||||1500|

20 

When you have the sorcerer skill, there's a few things to be careful of. This skill is closely related to the sage skill and requires fewer experience points when acquiring both. If a character has neither the sorcerer nor sage skill, they can acquire 1 level in both the sorcerer and sage skills by spending 2000 experience points. You may acquire sorcerer only, but it's better to avoid this, as it will put you at a disadvantage during the game. 

If a character has 1 level in the sage skill (so if they're a human or half-elf, and if _merchant/scholar_ or _noble_ was rolled on Table 1-5: Backgrounds), they can acquire 1 level in the sorcerer skill for 1500 points. Of course, having the sage skill does not mean that you're required to have the sorcerer skill. The sage skill is useful enough on its own. 

It is important to note that _it is against the rules for a character who has neither the sorcerer nor sage skills to acquire only the sorcerer skill for 1500 points._ 

Table 1-7: Experience Points by Skill (at Character Creation) is almost identical to a segment of Table 8-1: Experience Points by Skill, which is used for character growth as explained in chapter 8. 

As this shows, the use of starting experience points is exactly the same as the use of experience points during character growth, so it might be a good idea to read the explanation in chapter 8 first. 

## **1.4.6 Purchasing Weapons and Armor** 

Once ability scores and skills are determined, the character is almost complete. All that is left to do is use your money to purchase the equipment your character needs. 

**Table 1-8: Weapons-1** 

|**Table 1-8: Weapons-1**||||
|---|---|---|---|
|Weapon Name|Usage|Required Str.|Price Calculation|
|Swords<br>Dagger (throwable)<br>Main-gauche<br>Swordbreaker<br>Katar<br>Shortsword<br>Cutlass<br>Rapier<br>Saber<br>Scimitar<br>Broadsword<br>Falchion<br>Bastard sword<br>Estoc<br>Shamshir<br>Flamberge<br>Greatsword|1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1~2H<br>2H<br>2H<br>2H<br>2H|<br>1~5<br>1~5<br>1~5<br>3~5<br>3~8<br>6~12<br>6~14<br>7~14<br>8~14<br>8~16<br>12~16<br>13~17<br>11~16<br>14~<br>15~21<br>16~|x10+20<br>x20+20<br>x20+40<br>x10+30<br>x10+30<br>x20+40<br>x10+90<br>x20+50<br>x20+50<br>x20+40<br>x20+60<br>x30+50<br>x30+40<br>x40+70<br>x40+80<br>x40+60|
|Axes<br>Hand ax (throwable)<br>Battle-ax<br>Great ax|1H<br>1~2H<br>2H|<br>4~11<br>10~20<br>18~|x10+20<br>x20+40<br>x20+50|
|Spears<br>Javelin (throwable)<br>Short spear (throwable)<br>Trident (throwable)<br>Longspear<br>Pike|1H<br>1H<br>1H<br>1~2H<br>2H|<br>1~10<br>2~13<br>4~16<br>4~20<br>10~|x10+15<br>x10+10<br>x10+20<br>x10+20<br>x10+40|
|Maces<br>Light mace<br>Heavy mace<br>Maul|1H<br>1~2H<br>2H|<br>5~12<br>9~16<br>16~|x20+20<br>x20+30<br>x20+40|
|Clubs<br>Boomerang (made for throwing)<br>Club(throwable)|1H<br>1H|1~9<br>1~|x10+10<br>x5+10|
|Staves<br>Mage’s staf<br>Big club<br>Quarterstaf|2H<br>2H<br>2H|1~10<br>1~<br>8~|x10+100<br>x10+10x<br>x10+20|

Stock up on weapons, armor, and other equipment and get ready for adventure. At this time, please note the following. 

Please determine how much money you have by following the instructions on Table 1-5: Backgrounds or Table 1-6: Starting Experience by Race. 

21 

## **Required Strength** 

When buying weapons and armor, one must be aware of their **required strength** . Even swords of the same shape are sold in a variety of sizes to match the physical strength of the person using it. 

In real life, when a baseball player chooses a bat for himself, he chooses one that matches his physical strength. For an adventurer, the first step to survival is to choose a weapon most suited to their strength. 

Basically, the most suitable weapon is one whose _required strength equals the character's strength_ . As long as you choose that, you are guaranteed the same attack capability, even if you use a different type of weapon. Think of a sword, ax, or spear with a required strength of 14 as the same in terms of game value. Therefore, it’s a good idea to choose one based on the image of your character. 

However, most weapons have a limited range of required strength. It’s a constraint that comes with the general size and nature of the weapon. Therefore, if the _required strength_ of the weapon you’re buying on Table 1-8: Weapons does not match your character's strength, you should not buy that weapon. 

## **One-Handed and TwoHanded Weapons** 

A two-handed weapon will deal more damage to an opponent than a onehanded weapon of the same required strength. Of course, if you have a twohanded weapon, you cannot hold a shield, which will make your character less capable of defense. 

To determine whether a weapon is one-handed or two-handed, see the usage column on Table 1-8: Weapons. 1H stands for _one-handed_ . 2H stands for _two-handed_ . 1~2H means the weapon can be wielded with one _or_ both hands. 

**Table 1-8: Weapons-2** 