# What You’ll Need to Play Sword World RPG

## **The Structure of the Rulebook** 

This book consists of five major parts. 

**==> picture [22 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Welcome to Sword World!** 

This is the part you are reading right now. It's a brief introduction to _Sword World RPG_ . If you're not familiar with role-playing games or _Sword World RPG_ , please start reading here. 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Part 1 Player Section** 

This is the part for the players, one of the two groups of people needed to enjoy an RPG. It introduces the minimum rules you should remember when playing _Sword World RPG_ . 

**==> picture [21 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Part 2 Game Master Section** 

This is the part for the game master. A game master requires a deeper mastery of an RPG compared to players. When you’re a game master, you will have to remember rules that you wouldn’t have to remember when you’re a player. Rules that aren’t necessary from a player's point of view are included here. 

Therefore, if you're solely a player, you _don't_ have to force yourself to memorize the rules of this part. Conversely, a game master _must_ understand the rules included here in addition to those included in Part 1. 

**==> picture [21 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Part 3 Optional Rules** 

These are rules designed to make playing _Sword World RPG_ more interesting. However, having additional rules to memorize often gets in the way 

of the speedy development that is the life of an RPG. 

The rules in this section are for those who already have an understanding of _Sword World RPG_ and are able to play with ease. It's _not_ recommended for inexperienced players to use the rules here from the beginning. 

**==> picture [21 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Guide to Forcelia and Alecrast** 

_Sword World RPG_ is set on the continent of **Alecrast** , a part of the world called **Forcelia** . This part is a brief overview of Forcelia as a whole, the history of Alecrast, and various regions. 

In order to play an RPG, it's best to have all participants understand the background setting, and proceed with the game implicitly based on this **common understanding** . This part should help you with that. 

## **What You’ll Need to Play Sword World RPG** 

When playing _Sword World RPG_ , you will have to write and rewrite many things during the game. So you’ll need pencils, erasers, notepads, etc. 

You will also need Character Sheets. A Character Sheet is used to keep track of a character who acts in a fictional world (Alecrast in the case of _Sword World RPG_ ) as the player's alter ego. These are needed per the number of people. Please copy and use the sheets included in this book. 

other RPGs, incorporates chance and uses dice to resolve various actions, in order to make the game more fun. The dice used are ordinary six-sided dice. Since two dice are often used at a time, it is advisable to bring two dice per person. 

From here on in this book, rolling dice will be referred to as _rolling 1D_ or _rolling 2D_ . When you _roll 1D_ , roll one die and use the result that comes up. When you _roll 2D_ , roll two dice at the same time and use the total of both numbers (2-12). 

## **Handling fractions** 

Due to the nature of the game, there are situations in _Sword World RPG_ where math calculations must be made. If division results in a fraction, the fraction is either rounded up or rounded down. Which one is clearly stated for each situation. However, if it's _not_ mentioned, the fraction should _always_ be rounded up. 

Along with pens and pencils, you must not forget the dice. As mentioned before, _Sword World RPG_ , like many 

7