# Books Related to Sword World RPG

## **Books Related to Sword World RPG** 

Here, we'll introduce some books that will help you understand _Sword World RPG_ . You do not need all of these, but knowing their contents can make playing _Sword World RPG_ more enjoyable. 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **1. Replay Collections** 

The _Sword World RPG Replay Collections_ , published by Fujimi Dragon Books, are a good way to learn how to actually play the game. The progress of the game is reproduced via conversation between the game master and the players. 

Once you read these, you will quickly understand how the game is meant to progress. 

There are three points to be aware of, however. 

First, _Sword World RPG Replay Collections_ ① _~_ ⑨ are _not_ based on this rulebook, but rather on the previously released _old_ version of the rules (see below). Since some of the rules in this book you’re reading right now have been revised, there are rare cases where the descriptions are contradictory. When you play, please follow what's written in _these_ rules. 

Second, although the _Duda RPG Replay Collection_ series uses the rules of _Sword World RPG_ , it is a variant that emphasizes the aspects of humor, fantasy and mystery. As a game, it’s nearly the same, but in this series, modified rules not found in _Sword World RPG_ , such as **inept detective checks** , have been introduced to demonstrate its uniqueness. So please note that even though it's 99% Sword World RPG, it's still not 100% (for more information on this, please read the Introduction and Commentary sections of _Duda RPG Replay Collection_ ① _: The Lost Detective Appears!_ ). 

Finally, these replays are based on actual play and reproduction of the 

situations, but have been cut or edited for redundancy and other aspects in order to prioritize readability. Some rule errors that occurred during the game have been corrected and dealt with, especially in areas where they do not have a major impact. In actual play, things do not go as smoothly as this. A replay should _not_ be considered a complete manual, but merely a reference. 

**==> picture [21 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **2. Scenario Collections** 

The _Sword World RPG Scenario Collections_ , published by Fujimi Dragon Books, save game masters the trouble of creating their own scenarios. Not only will they save you from creating scenarios, but they will also serve as a useful model when you do create your own. 

Please note that some of these follow the _old_ version of rules. However, since there are almost no revisions, they can be used nearly as-is. 

Although the details of monsters and magical items listed in individual scenarios may differ from the rules in this book, when using them, please play with the details as described in the scenario, with the exception of item prices. This is because the information in this book has been modified for more general use. For this reason, there may be times when game balance within the scenario is not fully supported. Please follow this rule for item prices only. 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **3. World Guide** 

The _Sword World RPG World Guide_ , published by Fujimi Shobo, is a comprehensive introduction to the continent of Alecrast, the background setting of the game. It is very useful when creating your own scenarios, and for those who are mainly players, it is also 

effective to have a general outline of the world. 

## **4. Sword World Novels and Short Story Collections** 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

_Sword World Novels_ and _Sword World Short Story Collections_ published by Fujimi Fantasia Bunko are a suitable introduction to the world of _Sword World RPG_ . 

It’ll be helpful to know what the setting of _Sword World RPG_ is like and what kind of thoughts the people who live there are thinking. 

However, among these, the _Duda Series_ and _Dawn of Chaos_ `Ⅰ` _-_ `Ⅳ` are slightly different. The former, as mentioned in the Replay Collection section, is a humorous mystery variant, so the books emphasize this aspect. The latter is set not on the continent of Alecrast, the main setting of _Sword World RPG_ , but rather in a land called **Chaos Land** . All of these require some ingenuity to handle with this rulebook alone. However, the underlying setting of Forcelia is still common. 

**==> picture [21 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

## **5. Sword World RPG Adventures** 

The _Sword World RPG Adventures_ series, published by Fujimi Dragon Books, are collections of ideas from readers who play _Sword World RPG_ , in the form of novels. Similar to the _Sword World Novels/Short Story Collections_ , these are a good way to learn about the setting. 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **6. Collection Series** 

The _Collection Series_ , such as _Monster Collection_ published by Fujimi Dragon Books, are a good way to learn the terminology used within the game in _Sword World RPG_ . 

8

This game uses terms such as _goblin_ and _broadsword_ , which appear frequently in fantasy games, but are otherwise not so common. Explaining each of these terms one by one would not only make the rulebook thicker, but would also hinder understanding of the rules themselves. 

Therefore, this rulebook keeps explanations of such terms to a minimum. To learn more about these terms, please refer to the _Collection Series_ . 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **7. Old Version of the Rules** 

Three volumes have been published by Fujimi Dragon Books: _Sword World RPG_ , and _Sword World RPG Advanced Rules Part 1_ and _2_ . These are the rulebooks for _Sword World RPG_ , that is, they serve exactly the same purpose as this book. This book is a re-edited and partially revised version of the contents of these three books, so they're unnecessary if you’re holding this in your hands. 

**==> picture [21 x 35] intentionally omitted <==**

## **8. Game Master Screen** 

The _Sword World RPG Game Master Screen_ is a collection of charts (or tables) that you will need in order to play this game. This can be useful for smooth game progress. 

However, it is in accordance with the _old_ version of the rules mentioned above. In this book, some rules have been revised and some tables have been slightly changed. Therefore, it's advisable to make some modifications when using this. For example, you can copy the revised tables and paste them over the old ones. 

In addition to these, _Sword World RPG_ is scheduled to feature a variety of other related works. It will also continue to be supported in magazines published by Fujimi Shobo, such as _Dragon Magazine_ . 

**==> picture [317 x 602] intentionally omitted <==**

9