# 1.1 Ability Scores

## **Ability Scores** 

## **1.1** 

Just as there are many different kinds of people in the real world, strong (or weak), smart (or dumb), etc., there are many different kinds of people in Forcelia. In Sword World RPG, these basic characteristics of an adventurer are represented by numbers called **ability scores** . There are six types of ability scores: **dexterity** , **agility** , **intelligence** , **strength** , **life force** , and **mental power** . The higher the number for each, the better the ability. Ability scores apply not only to humans, but also to the various non-human races that become adventurers. Human ability scores range from 4-24 (14 on average) for each. 

large weapons, heavy armor, etc., high strength is required. 

## 【 **Life Force** 】 

Life force represents how well an adventurer can withstand physical injury. The higher this number, the more robust the adventurer is. 

## 【 **Mental Power** 】 

Mental power represents the adventurer's willpower and perseverance. Using magic is hard work, and one cannot hope to cast much magic without a high mental capacity. Mental power is also related to magic resistance. 

## 【 **Dexterity** 】 

## **Loss of Ability Scores and Its Impact** 

Dexterity represents the dexterity of an adventurer's hands. It relates to a variety of tasks that involve the use of one's hands. This is especially important when wielding weapons in combat. 

While adventuring, adventurers often suffer physical and mental injuries and fatigue. In _Sword World RPG_ , this is represented by a loss of life force and mental power (point reduction). If either life force or mental power fall to 0 or less, the adventurer will fall unconscious and be unable to act. The four other ability scores of dexterity, agility, intelligence, and strength are rarely reduced, but if this does happen and these ability scores _do_ fall to 0 or less, the adventurer will still become disabled. At this time, whether they're conscious or not depends on the situation. 

## 【 **Agility** 】 

Agility represents an adventurer's physical balance and agility. It's related to working with the whole body. In combat, it is important when evading enemy attacks. 

## 【 **Intelligence** 】 

Intelligence represents the speed of an adventurer's mind and the amount of knowledge they hold, or in other words, their so-called smarts. It also represents the ability to perceive things, such as finding hidden objects and sensing abnormalities spur of the moment. Above all, it is important when using magic, a major attraction in fantasy. 

If life force and mental power are reduced by wounds or exhaustion, they will recover once the wounds are treated or the exhaustion is wiped away. There are various conditions for these reductions and recoveries, which you will discover as you read through this book. 

## 【 **Strength** 】 

## 【 **Ability Bonuses** 】 

Strength represents an adventurer's muscular strength. If you want to use 

An ability score value is related to the success or failure of an action that an 

adventurer tries to perform, but in _Sword World RPG_ , success or failure is determined by a **bonus** derived from the ability score, rather than the ability score itself. The result of each ability score divided by 6 (rounded down) will be the bonus for that ability score (Table 1-1: Ability Bonuses). Each of these numbers is referred to as a _dexterity bonus_ , _intelligence bonus_ , etc., using the name of the ability score. For example, it would say something like _an adventurer with 14 dexterity has a dexterity bonus of +2_ (of course, the bonus is always 0 or a positive number, but by nature it's usually written ±0, +1, +2...... etc.) When a character's ability score increases or decreases, even temporarily, the ability bonus increases or decreases accordingly. However, temporary reductions do _not_ affect modifiers for only two scores: life force and mental power. 

**Table 1-1: Ability Bonuses** 

|AbilityScore|Bonus|
|---|---|
|2~5|±0|
|6~11|+1|
|12~17|+2|
|18~23|+3|
|24~29|+4|
|Add +1 for every +6 in ability scores<br>thereafer||



12