# 1.2 Races

## **Races** 

## **1.2** 

Humans are not the only adventurers in Forcelia. Next, we'll explain the races that are relatively common as adventurers in Forcelia, though they’re not as common as humans. 

Players are free to choose from humans or any of these races to be their alter ego, an adventurer. 

## 【 **Dwarf** 】 

Dwarves were once members of the fae tribe who lived in the fairy world, but now they have fully immersed into the world inhabited by humans (which we call the material world) and no longer have the ability to travel to and from the fairy world. Their lives are no different from those of humans. 

They are about 120 cm tall, round and plump, and have bulbous noses. Men often have long beards on their chins, while women do not. Their hair ranges from brown to dark brown and their eyes are a similar color. Their skin color is dark, almost brown. 

They can see things in the dark as well as they can in daylight. They are also very dexterous with their hands, and excel in such techniques as craftsmanship and blacksmithing. Many of their works are stunning and cannot be imitated by humans. Dwarves usually live in human cities and villages using their own skills, but there are several cities and villages where only dwarves live. 

They have a very strong sense of tribalism, respecting the rules of their tribe and seldom violating them. They mainly worship the gods of the earth, with **Braki** as their main deity, who is also the god of smithing. 

The life span of a dwarf is longer than that of a human, thought to be around 200 years. 

Their rule characteristics are as follows: 

2. Among the craftsman general skill, has any one of the following at level 5: carpentry, smithing, woodworking, stonemasonry, gem crafting (details are explained under 7.3: Craftsman Skill, see p. 126). 

3. Unable to learn ancient magic or spirit magic. 

## 【 **Grassrunner** 】 

Grassrunners were originally members of the fae tribe who lived in the meadows. However, they are very curious and many have abandoned the fairy world to become residents of human society. They have already lost the ability to return to the fairy world, but as fae of the meadows, they have a truly diverse range of abilities. 

They are about 1 meter tall and have the appearance of a human child. Other than their slightly pointed ears, they are not much different from humans. Their hair varies from golden to tan. Their eyes have a similar color. Their skin color is predominantly black or reddish. 

They’re not in the habit of settling in one place. They only stay in one place for a while only to raise a few children, and once the children are grown, they travel again. They usually lead a nomadic lifestyle, either alone or in family units. Of course, they have no concept of tribes, nor do they like to live in cities. Their personalities are very cheerful and simple. Therefore, they have no custom of believing in gods at all. What they desire are the various experiences and incidents one encounters while traveling, so for this reason they may join groups of adventurers. 

Grassrunners have a life span of about 200 years. 

Their rule characteristics are as follows: 

1. Has 1 level in the thief skill. 

3. Can communicate with plants and insects. 

4. Cannot learn any runes. 

## 【 **Elf** 】 

Elves are members of the fae tribe who live in the forests, and are the envy of humans because of their beautiful appearance and immortality (no life span). 

Their most distinctive feature is their long, slender, pointy ears. They're about 160 cm tall and slim. Their body hair is thin, and even men do not grow beards. Their hair color ranges from golden to chestnut, sometimes silver. Their skin color is near white and their eyes are pale blue or green. They are also close as a species to humans and both can produce offspring. These children are called **halfelves** . 

They live a very closed-off life in the forest. They do not like outsiders, nor do they want to be ruled by others. As such, they may act aggressively toward intruders into the forest. They rarely leave the forests where they live, but occasionally the odd elf will show up in town. They do not believe in any gods. 

One of the reasons humans envy elves is their _immortality_ , which is a characteristic of an elite (ancient) race called **high elves** . However, these high elves avoid contact with humans even more so than common elves. Elves who appear in the cities of humans are for the most part ordinary (newer species) elves, bound to a life span of about 1000 years rather than immortality. 

The rule characteristics of elves are as follows: 

      1. Has 1 level in the shaman skill 

      2. Unable to learn holy magic. 

   2. Has 1 level in the ranger skill. 

1. Can see in the dark. 

13