within 24 hours of your previous awakening (when your mental power was last recovered), your mental power will _not_ be recovered. 

## **5.1.7** 

## **Magic Expansion** 

You can increase the effectiveness and certainty of magic by consuming extra mental power. This is called **magic expansion** . 

Magic expansion is done by doubling or tripling...... the _amount_ of mental power consumed. At this time, you do _not_ double or triple the base mental power cost....... Instead, you divide the mental power by your _skill level, rounded up_ , or in other words, the mental power you would consume when _not_ expanding is doubled, tripled...... etc. 

## **Example:** 

Suppose a sorcerer with sorcerer skill level 2 doubles the range of his _Energy Bolt_ spell and casts it on two enemies. The base mental power cost of _Energy Bolt_ is _5_ . For this reason, the mental power consumed _without_ expansion is 5 ÷ 2, rounded up to _3_ . Therefore, for a _doubled_ expansion, the amount of mental power consumed would be 3 x 2 = **6** . You would _not_ calculate (5 x 2) ÷ 2 = 5. 

## **5.1.7.1 Expansion Types** 

Magic expansion includes the following types. 

## 《 **Targets Expansion** 》 

If you expand a spell that affects one enemy (or ally), it can instead affect multiple at the same time. 

If it's _two_ or _three_ targets...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... 

In this case, you must roll the dice separately for each target to determine if they resist the magic, and other effects such as damage must also be determined separately. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **targets** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Area Expansion** 》 

If you expand a spell that affects a specific area, it can affect a larger area than originally intended. 

If the area is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... You can also expand an area by a _fraction_ (x1.5, x8/3, etc.), in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. So for expansions such as _x 1.5_ and _x 8/3_ , the cost would be _double_ and _triple_ , respectively. 

Since it’s the area that gets expanded, the radius of a circle, a side of a square, etc., can only be increased by the _square root_ of the expansion rate. Please see Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **area** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Volume Expansion** 》 

Some spells that affect a space or object can have their volume expanded. If the volume is expanded by _two_ or _three_ times...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... Rounding should be handled the same way you would for area expansion. 

Since it’s the volume that gets expanded, the radius of a sphere, a side of a cube, etc., can only be increased by the _cube root_ of the expansion rate. Please see Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **target volume** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

**Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion** 

|Expansion<br>Rate|Area Expansion<br>Length|Volume Expansion<br>Length|
|---|---|---|
|x 2|1.4|1.3|
|x 3|1.7|1.4|
|x 4|2|1.6|
|x 5|2.2|1.7|
|x 6|2.4|1.8|
|x 7|2.6|1.9|
|x 8|2.8|2.0|
|x 9|3.0|2.1|
|x 10|3.2|2.2|



Note: On the table, _expansion rate_ is the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

When you cast a spell by consuming that multiplied amount of mental power, multiply the number in _area expansion length_ or _volume expansion length_ by the number (radius, side) that represents the spell’s _area of effect_ , and the result will be the spell’s _area_ . For spells cast on a flat surface, use the number in the _area expansion length_ column, and for spells cast into space, use the number in the _volume expansion length_ column. For example, when you cast the ancient magic _Light_ , whose area is _A space with a 10 meter radius_ , by consuming _double_ the mental power, the resulting area will be a spherical space with a radius of _10 x 1.3 =_ _**13 meters**_ . 

## 《 **Duration Expansion** 》 

For spells whose effects last a certain amount of time, you can expand that duration. If the duration is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... You can also increase it by a fraction, such as x1.5, in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **duration** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Distance Expansion** 》 

Magic basically only works up to a certain distance. However, there are spells that can extend their reach. If reach distance is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ .......  You can also increase it by a fraction, such as x1.5, in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

61

For spells that can perform this expansion, **distance** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Damage Expansion** 》 

For spells that deal damage, expansion can increase the certainty of that damage. If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... you can make a damage check (strike roll) _twice_ or _three times_ . The damage you will deal is equal to the _greatest_ of all the strike rolls you made in this way ( _not_ the total). 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **damage certainty** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Final Score Increase** 》 

There's some magic whose effects are negated or reduced if they're resisted by the target, but will also let you _increase_ the magic's final score (resist target score) in order to prevent this. This increase in final score may also take effect if a nullifying spell is cast later. 

If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... you can add a _+1_ or _+2_ bonus to your final score. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **final score** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

This expansion requires a deep proficiency in magic. Therefore, it cannot be done infinitely. Final score can only be increased up to a maximum of _caster's rune master skill level ÷ 2 (rounded up)_ . That’s up to _+1 (double)_ for 1st~2nd level, _+2 (triple)_ for 3rd~4th level, and _+5 (sextuple)_ for 9th~10th level. 

## 《 **Effect Expansion** 》 

Some expansions don’t fall into any of the above types. For spells that can perform these special expansions, **effect** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details, and an explanation is given under each spell. 

## **5.1.7.2 Combined Expansion** 

Some magic allows for multiple expansion types. In these cases, you can perform multiple expansions at the same time. However, at this time, the amount of mental power consumed will become extremely large. By multiplying the rates determined for each expansion, you can determine the total multiplied rate of mental power consumed. 

## **Example:** 

Suppose a sorcerer casts an _Energy Bolt_ on three enemies ( _x 3_ expansion) with a +1 to his final score ( _x 2_ expansion) and he makes 4 damage checks for each ( _x 4_ expansion). In this case, the multiplied rate of mental power consumed is 3 x 2 x 4 = **24!** 

## **5.1.8** 

## **Magic Contraction** 

Magic can also be **contracted** as opposed to expanded. However, this does _not_ reduce the amount of mental power consumed. 

## **5.1.8.1 Contraction Types** 

Magic contractions include the following: 

## 《 **Area Contraction** 》 

You can make the area of effect narrower than originally intended. The shape (usually a circle) _cannot_ be changed. You also cannot cast it in such a way that it hits the enemy directly in the eyes. 

## 《 **Volume Contraction** 》 

Similar to area contraction, you can also reduce the volume of the targeted object or space. Again, the shape cannot be changed, and you cannot directly aim it at the enemy's eyes. 

## 《 **Duration Contraction** 》 

Magic with a duration can be optionally shortened. However, you _cannot_ set a time that causes the effect to wear off in the middle of a round. You may _only_ set it to wear off at the _end_ of a round. You must also decide how long you want the magic to last _before_ you cast it. Magic that’s already been cast cannot be canceled at will. 

## 《 **Magic Power Decrease** 》 

Magic power can be optionally reduced. This will reduce the final score and, if it's damage magic, _also_ reduce bonus damage (it’s not possible to _only_ reduce the final score or _only_ reduce bonus damage). You must declare how many points you’ll reduce _before_ you roll the dice. If used on multiple targets, you must reduce it by the same amount for _all_ of them. Also, if the side casting the magic rolls double sixes, the resisting side will _also_ need double sixes, no matter _how much_ magic power was declared to be decreased (if it's a monster, it _cannot_ resist). 

## 《 **Effect Contraction** 》 

All magic that can expand their effects can also contract their effects. 

## **Combined Expansion 5.1.8.2 and Contraction** 

Although it's not often done, it's possible to perform magic expansion _and_ contraction at the same time. For example, you could _extend_ the area of effect while _reducing_ magic power. The mental power required at this time is decided by _expansion_ . It _cannot_ be reduced by contraction. For example, if you _double_ the area _and_ reduce magic power by _-4_ , the mental power consumed will still be _double_ . 

62

## **5.1.9** 

## **Magic Types** 

There’s several kinds of magic that share the same characteristics. 

These characteristics are presented here as **magic types** . 

## 《 **Damage** 》 

A spell that deals damage to the target's life force or mental power. Spells of the damage type always have a clearly defined _strike power_ . If you manage to break through the target's resist, use the spell's strike power to determine damage by making a _strike roll_ using the Rating Table, same as if you had hit with a weapon in weapon combat. The key number is, of course, the indicated _strike power_ . If you roll 10 or greater during the strike roll, a _critical_ will occur and deal even more damage, same as in weapon combat. Conversely, If you roll double ones, it does _not_ deal any damage at all. 

Most magic of the **damage** type can still deal damage even if it's resisted by the target, only with a reduced effect. In this case, you must make the strike roll after _subtracting 10_ from strike power. Also, at this time, no matter how high you roll during your strike roll, a _critical_ will _not_ occur. 

In either case, the caster's magic power can be added as bonus damage to the result of the strike roll. Also, the target's adventurer level (or the monster's monster level) is subtracted from the damage. However, there’s an _exception_ if you roll _double ones_ during your strike roll. In this case, no matter how much magic power your character (monster) has, they _cannot_ deal damage to the target at all. 

Also, even magic of the _damage_ type may in rare cases take no effect if resisted. At this time, if the target successfully resists, you _cannot_ make a strike roll. 

## 《 **Target Score** 》 

Some magic can nullify the effects of other magic. For example, the ancient magic _Dispel Magic_ nullifies the effects of most magic. 

Most magic is automatically nullified if a nullifying spell is used, but there are some that are not. This is magic that has a _target score_ . 

When casting any magic, no matter what kind of magic it is, you must roll 2D to check whether an automatic failure (double ones) will occur or not. If you're trying to nullify magic that has a _target score_ with another spell, you must use that other spell's 2D roll to determine your final score. This final score equals _magic power + 2D roll_ (similar to a final score for other success rolls). 

If this final score is greater than or equal to the _target score_ originally set for that first magic that was cast, then that first magic can be nullified. 

This _target score_ equals the final score of the first magic that was cast (in other words, the magic you're about to nullify). Therefore, when an adventurer uses magic that has a _target score_ , that player should note down that score and remember it. However, if you feel this is cumbersome, or if you forget to make a note, then when it becomes necessary (nullifying magic has been used), you can roll 2D on the spot to determine a final score = _target score_ . 

When you use magic that nullifies other magic, if your roll is _double sixes_ , the magic will _automatically_ be nullified, no matter what the _target score_ is. 

Conversely, if the dice roll double sixes when determining the _target score_ (the success score of the first magic), you _must_ roll another double sixes in order to nullify that magic. 

## 《 **Counters (Negates)** 》 

When magic is cast against other magic, their effects may completely cancel each other out. For example, there are two kinds of ancient magic, _Decrease Weight_ (which makes an object lighter) 

and _Increase Weight_ (which makes an object heavier), but when both of these are cast on the same object at the same time, they will cancel each other out and disappear without taking effect. 

Such magic, that is, magic that negates the effect of other magic, but at the same time is negated by that other magic without taking its own effect, is called **counters (negates):** type. 

When casting _counters (negates):_ magic to cancel the effect of certain magic, if the magic that was cast prior has a _target score_ , then according to the definition of _magic with a target score_ , the magic that's cast after _cannot_ cancel the prior magic unless its final score is greater than or equal to the determined _target score_ . 

## 《 **Counters (Overpowers)** 》 

When certain magic is cast against other magic, it can cancel the effect of the prior magic but still take its own effect afterwards. This is magic of the **counters (overpowers):** type. 

For example, the ancient magic _Darkness_ can nullify the effects of the spirit magic _Will-O-Wisp_ and still close the surrounding area in darkness, which means _Darkness_ itself is more effective. 

However, this is often not automatic. One, is when the target _resists_ . In the case of magic that does not take effect if resisted, if the target _does_ resist it, the magic will _not_ take its effect, and the effect of the _prior_ magic will continue. 

The other, is when the prior magic has a _target score_ . In this case, according to the definition of _magic with a target score_ , the magic cast after will _not_ take effect unless its final score is greater than or equal to the determined _target score_ . 

If the magic cast prior has a _target score_ and the magic cast after is _resistible_ , please follow the procedure below to make a check. 

① First, confirm the _target score (= final score)_ of the magic cast prior (if you forgot, determine it now). 

63 



② Next, the one casting the magic must roll 2D to find their final score (by adding their magic power). 

③ Compare _target score in_ ① with _final score in_ ②. If the final score does not reach the target score, the magic will _not_ be cast. This ends here. 

④ If _final score in_ ② is greater than or equal to _target score in_ ①, the target may attempt to _resist_ . The _resist target score_ equals the _final score in_ ②. 

⑤ If the target _successfully resisted_ in ④, the new magic cast will _not_ take effect. The effect of the _prior_ magic will continue. If the target _failed to resist_ , the new magic cast _will_ take effect and the effect of the prior magic will be _negated_ . 

_Counters (overpowers):_ magic does not mean that certain magic is definitely stronger than other magic. It's possible for magic A to _counter (overpower)_ magic B, and at the same time for magic B to _counter (overpower)_ magic A. 

Also, all magic _counters (overpowers)_ itself. Therefore, if certain magic takes effect, and you cast that same magic on the same target _multiple_ times, the effect will _not_ be cumulative. 

## 《 **Mind** 》 

This is magic that affects the target's mental state. This kind of magic can only take effect on one target at a time. If magic of the **mind** type is cast on a target, and other magic also of the _mind_ type is cast on that target, the _new_ magic will take effect, and the prior magic will be _nullified_ . 

In other words, all _mind_ magic _counters (overpowers)_ other _mind_ magic. Note that many are _resistible_ magic, and some have _target scores_ . 

## 《 **Physical Ability** 》 

This is magic that affects the target’s physical abilities (strength, etc.). Magic of this type can _only_ take effect on _humans_ , _fae_ , and _youma_ . 

Also, with magic of the **physical ability** type, two or more cannot affect 

the same target at the same time. Please resolve them as _counters (overpowers)_ magic. 

It’s possible for both _mind_ and _physical ability_ magic to each affect the same target separately. 

## 《 **Weapon Enhancement** 》 

Magic that targets a weapon and enhances it. Two or more of this kind of magic cannot affect the same weapon at the same time. Please resolve them as _counters (overpowers)_ magic. 

Weapons that have been given power by ancient magic, silver weapons, or mithril silver weapons are assumed to already have _non-removable_ (see below) **weapon enhancement** magic cast on them. Therefore, that power _cannot_ be nullified, so even if you cast new _weapon enhancement_ magic, it’ll be _useless_ . 

## 《 **Non-removable** 》 

Some magic, such as _Dispel Magic_ (ancient magic) and _Remove Curse_ (holy magic), can be used as counter magic that _removes_ other magic. However, magic of the **non-removable** type _cannot_ be removed by other magic. 

Although, the ancient magic _Perfect Cancellation_ **is** able to remove _nonremovable_ magic. Also, sometimes there is counter magic that counters _certain_ magic, which if specified, will be removed by _that_ counter magic. It's also possible to remove _non-removable magic_ by directly using the power of a god (wicked god) with the holy/dark magic _Call God_ . 

## 《 **Curse** 》 

_Dispel Magic_ (ancient magic) can be used to remove most magic, but for magic of the **curse** type, this is not possible. However, _Remove Curse_ (holy magic) **can** be used to remove it. 

## 《 **Detection** 》 

A spell that detects objects, people, magic power, etc. These can be targeted by the ancient magic _Counter Sense_ . These spells also ignore the protection of the ancient magic _Magic Protection_ . 

## 《 **Focus** 》 

Magic has a fixed _duration_ . Magic of the **focus** type is that in which the magic's effect lasts as long as the caster (the one who casts the magic) is _focused_ . While focusing, the caster cannot take the following actions: 

Use other magic 

Attack another with a weapon (or barehanded) 

Move more than 3 meters in one round 

Speak words 

Any other voluntary action 

Even while focusing, if another attacks you with a weapon, etc. you can still attempt to _evade_ it. If magic is cast on you, it's also possible to _resist_ it. 

Also, when the target is no longer within the magic's area of effect (out of reach, out of sight, etc.), the magic will _lose_ its effect, even if you continue to focus. 

If the caster suffers damage to their life force or mental power, their focus will be interrupted and the magic's effect will be _lost_ . 

If the caster wishes to voluntarily release their focus (in order to take another action), they must declare it at the _beginning_ of the round, when no one else has made their action announcements yet. If your focus is interrupted due to damage, etc. your focus will be interrupted at the timing in which the damage is dealt. 

## 《 **Illusion** 》 

A spell that deceives the five senses of the target. These spells deceive the 

64