# 2.3 Checks

## **Baseline Scores** 

## **2.1** 

_skill level_ , and their dexterity bonus is used for _ability bonus_ . 

A **baseline score** is a number that indicates how competent or skilled a character is at a given activity. 

For example, if you want to hit an enemy with your sword, it is important to have dexterity to wield it accurately. Also, if the character is trained or experienced as a warrior, they’ll be even more likely to hit their target. 

## **Example:** 

Let’s find the baseline score for Ducard II when he wields his sword. His fighter skill level is 2 and his dexterity bonus is +2. 

Therefore, 2+2= **4** is his baseline score. 

In _Sword World RPG_ , this is expressed as **relevant skill level + ability bonus** and is called the _baseline score_ . 

Fighter is only useful in combat. The sorcerer, shaman, and priest rune master skills are also of little use for anything other than casting magic. 

**baseline score** = relevant skill level + ability bonus 

Other skills are used in a variety of situations. See Chapter 6: Adventurer 

For example, if the player wields a sword, their fighter skill level is used for 

## **Target Scores** 

## **2.2** 

The baseline score is a number that represents a character's ability. However, the success of an action is not only related to the ability of the person attempting it, but also to the difficulty of the action itself. The difficulty of hitting a target with the same weapon is much greater when your opponent is a seasoned warrior, than when he is an amateur with no fighting experience. 

This is represented by a **target score** . The greater the target score, the more difficult the action. 

Target scores for certain actions can be found in _Part 2: Game Master Section_ . This is because it is the game master who sets the target scores, not the players. 

## **Checks** 

## **2.3** 

Once the baseline score and target score are determined, a success roll **check** can finally be made. 

## **Example:** 

Did Ducard II’s attack hit the Goblin? His baseline score for attacks is _4_ and the target score for hitting a goblin is _10_ . In other words, we must roll two dice, add 4 to the result, and if the total is _10 or more_ , we’ll hit the target. 

The player must roll two dice and add their baseline score to the roll. The result is called the **final score** . This final score should be _equal to or greater than_ the target score. 

Try rolling the dice yourself. If the roll is 6 or greater, it’s a _hit_ , and if the roll is 5 or lower, it’s a _miss_ . 

final score (baseline score + 2D) ≥ target score → **action is successful** 

final score (baseline score + 2D) < target score → **action fails** 

Skills Other Than Combat and Magic to see which skills can be used for the baseline score of any given action. It also lists the ability scores associated with those actions. 

If a character does not have any skills related to an action, the baseline score is **0** regardless of their ability scores. 

## **Example:** 

Let’s say Ducard II is attempting to unlock a door. The two skills he has-fighter and ranger skill --do not have the ability _lockpicking_ . This means that Ducard II does not have a skill associated with picking locks. In this case, his dexterity bonus (+2) has no effect and his baseline score is _0_ . 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II is fighting some goblins. He swings his sword and cuts at the monster in front of him first. 

The game master declares the target score of this action to be _10_ . 

## **2.3.1** 

## **Automatic Success and Automatic Failure** 

Even the most difficult acts can succeed by a quirk of fate. On the other hand, no matter how simple something may seem, it may fail due to some misfortune. This is represented by the **automatic success** and **automatic failure** rules. 

30