This is a clairvoyance spell, so to speak. By casting this spell, the caster can see things on the other side of obstacles such as walls, etc. as well as the interior of boxes, etc. As long as it's within the area of effect, the caster can adjust the desired range and distance they want to see at will. The clairvoyant information appears directly in your mind as an image, so you can still see even if the target location is closed in darkness. 

## **[ Seal Enchantment ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=Touch Area=One object Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Hides magical power applied to an object 

Type=Target score, non-removable, lost Countered (Overpowered) By: _Analyze Enchantment_ 

Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell is used on objects imbued with magical power to hide the presence of that magical power. For this reason, _Sense Magic_ or _Sense Aura_ will no longer be able to distinguish them. When discerning magic power with _Analyze Enchantment_ , you'll need a final score greater than or equal to the _Seal Enchantment_ that was cast on it. 

Sometimes there are items from the ancient kingdom period that have this 

cast on them. Many of them are protected by _Seal Enchantment_ with a final score as high as 30 or greater. 

This spell has no effect when using the sage skill to appraise an item (however, if you don't think it has magical power, you might not try to appraise it). This spell cannot be cast on living things. 

## **[ Steal Mind ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Steals strike power 20 mental power from the target and gives it to the caster Type=Lost, damage (Mind-type, see description) 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This spell allows you to steal mental power (points) from the target and make it your own. First make a strike power 20 check to deal damage to the target, then the target's mental power (points) will be reduced while at the same time the caster's mental power (points) will be recovered by the same amount. If you expand the effect and steal mental power (points) from multiple targets, you can recover the total mental power (points) you stole. However, you cannot make your mental power (points) higher than your original score. Also, it has no effect at all if your opponent successfully resists. This also has no effect on opponents that do not have mental power (points), such as golems and skeletons. 

## **[ Slow ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=Reduce the target's agility by half Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that reduces the target's agility to half its original score. Targets who fail to resist will have their action 

77 

order and movement speed reduced by half due to changes in their agility, and their evasion speed (points) will also take a penalty. Regarding the evasion speed (points) penalty, the effect differs depending on the target's original agility. Please refer to Table 5-3: Slow: Agility and Evasion Penalties. 

**Table 5-3: Slow: Agility and Evasion Penalties** 

|Target's<br>Agility|Evasion Speed (Points)<br>Penalty|
|---|---|
|1-5|0|
|6-17|-1|
|18-29|-2|
|30-41|-3|
|42-53|-4|

## **[ Haste ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=Doubles the target's agility Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

This is a spell that doubles the target's agility from its original score. The target's action order and movement speed will be doubled, and their evasion speed (points) will also receive a bonus. Regarding the evasion speed (points) bonus, the effect differs depending on the target's original agility. Please refer to Table 5-4: Haste: Agility and Evasion Bonuses. 

**Table 5-4: Haste: Agility and Evasion Bonuses** 

|Target's<br>Agility|Evasion Speed (Points)<br>Bonus|
|---|---|
|1-2|0|
|3-8|+1|
|9-14|+2|
|15-20|+3|
|21-26|+4|

## **[ Rune Rope ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=10 meters Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Binds the target with invisible rope Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=Negated effect 

This spell creates an invisible magical rope, with the effect of binding the target. If the target fails to resist, they will be bound by this rope and become completely unable to move. The poor victim will be unable to take any actions. However, since they can still move their mouth, they can speak and use holy magic. Not even an ogre can break this magical rope. 

Note that if the target succeeds on a resistance roll against this spell, it’ll have no effect. When making a check, you may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **7th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Dispel Order ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=21 

Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Instant Effect=Remove spells that enforce commands 

Type=Counters (Negates): All puppet and golem-type magic, _Geas_ , _Command Golem_ , _Quest_ 

Expansion=Final score 

Resist=None 

This spell nullifies the effects of the types of spells that give commands, such as _Quest_ , _Geas_ , etc. It also removes puppet and golem-type magic. 

This spell can also cancel commands given to a golem. Once a golem has had its commands canceled, it becomes neutral and can be given new commands using the 9th level spell _Command Golem_ . However, the final score of commands given during the ancient 

kingdom period is very high, so you'll need a final score of at least 30 or greater to cancel a golem's commands. 

Once this spell fails, you cannot attempt it again until your magic power increases. 

## **[ Telekinesis ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 

## Distance=Within the caster's view 

Area=One person or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Move the target without touching it Type=Focus Expansion=Final score, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

_Telekinesis_ is a spell that allows you to move things using only the power of your consciousness. The target can be an individual or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume. Targets who attempt to resist this spell and fail, or do not attempt to resist, will be moved at the caster's will. Its movement speed is 10 meters per round. 

This spell cannot move only one part of the target. One person, one rock, etc. all have to be moved in one piece, and it's impossible to tear them apart. 

## **[ Teleport ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One person or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Teleports the target Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, target score Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that instantly moves a target (individual or object) to another location. The movement destination is limited to a location that's visible to the caster or a location that's familiar to the caster. This spell will not work if there's an obstacle blocking the movement destination. Only solids greater than a certain size can be obstacles. What amounts to an obstacle depends on the situation, but objects such as desks, chairs, large rocks, etc. can be obstacles. 

78 

## **[ Full Potential ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=28 

## Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Increase the three ability scores of dexterity, agility, and strength by 6 Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

_Full Potential_ is a spell that enhances the effects of _Physical Enchantment_ and raises potential capabilities of the human body to maximum. The result is the same effect as casting the _Sharpness_ , _Quickness_ and _Strength_ spells of _Physical Enchantment_ all at the same time. In other words, _dexterity_ , _agility_ , and _strength_ all increase by _6_ at the same time. As a result, each ability bonus will be increased by +1, so for the duration, the baseline score of the abilities of each skill related to the increased ability score will also become +1. If you use it in combat, attack power, evasion speed, and bonus damage will all increase, so action order and movement speed will also increase. If the target is expressed as a monster, its attack points, evasion points, and strike points will increase by 1 point, and at the same time its movement speed and action order will also increase by 6. 

You _cannot_ expand this spell's effect (that is, increase ability scores by 12 points, 18 points, etc.). 

## **[ Blade Net ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Entangle the opponent in a magical net, binding their movement. Targets that act against the binding suffer strike power 20 damage 

Type=Target score, damage (Blade-type) Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell entangles the target in a shining silver magical net, binding their actions. At this time, the target can move if they want to against the binding of the net. If a target fails to resist against this 

spell and attempts to act, they will suffer a _-4_ penalty on all success rolls because the net coiled around their body will hinder them. In addition, each thread that forms the magical net is razor sharp, causing the target to suffer strike power 20 damage each round in which they attempt to act. 

If the target successfully resists, when they attempt to act, the penalty on success rolls will only be -2, damage will only be calculated strike power 10, and no criticals will occur. 

Movement and combat, as well as casting spells, all count as having taken an action (using holy magic also counts as having taken an action). If you do not take action, you will not suffer this damage. 

Please note that when making a check, you may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. You can determine the damage by rolling the dice each round your character takes an action. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **[ Bend Bar ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=21 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A bar-shaped object Duration=Instant Effect=Bend a bar-shaped object Type=- 

Expansion=Distance, targets, target’s crosssection (see description) Resist=None 

This is a spell that bends bars. The target bar will bend in the direction desired by the caster, regardless of the elasticity of the material. Since it only targets bar-shaped objects, shields and armor cannot be bent. Most weapons have a bar-like part that can be bent to make them useless. A bar-shaped object is one that’s up to 10 cm thick and has a 

length to thickness ratio of 3 to 1 or greater. 

This magic’s effect cannot work on things that have already had magic cast on them or have life (or have undead life force). 

If you expand the effect by consuming extra mental power, you can bend objects with a thicker bar (crosssectional area). 

## **[ Polymorph ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Permanent (caster's option) Effect=Change the target into another creature 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score 

Resist=Negated effect 

By casting this spell, the caster can turn any target that fails (or does not attempt) to resist into an animal of their choice. The targets of this spell can only be animals and plants created by the hands of the gods, including humans, fae, and youma, and do not include mythical beasts, magical beasts, titans, etc. Since they're not living things, undead and magical creatures are also impossible. Creatures that have already been transformed are also included in this limitation. The target will be completely transformed physically and will be able to use all of the creature's physical abilities after transformation (flying, breathing underwater, etc.). In addition, their memories, intelligence, and soul from before the transformation will be passed on to the new body. 

## **[ Magic Reflection ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=Until the caster falls asleep, or until magic is cast on them 

Effect=Reflects magic cast on the caster back onto the opponent Type=Target score, lost Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

79 

This spell reflects magic cast on the caster directly back onto their opponent. If magic is cast on the person who casts this spell, that magic will rebound back to the opponent who cast it. At the same time, the effect of _Magic Reflection_ will disappear. 

If your magic has been reflected, you must resist against your own magic yourself. 

However, this can only reflect magic which has an area of effect of _one_ . In the case of magic that affects a space, _Magic Reflection_ has no effect. Also, since the reflection is indiscriminate, even magic that’s _favorable_ towards the caster will be reflected. In addition, spells that nullify magic, such as _Dispel Magic_ , cannot be reflected. 

If a caster using _Magic Reflection_ casts other magic on his or herself, the effect of _Magic Reflection_ will be lost at the same time the new magic is cast. 

## **8th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Illusionary Beast ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Attacks with an illusionary beast that can only be seen by the target Type=Illusion, target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

As the name suggests, this is a spell that creates an illusionary beast to attack the target. In the round in which the spell is cast, an illusionary beast will appear in front of the target, and begin attacking on the next round. This attack can only target the person targeted by the spell. The attack will continue until the illusionary beast itself is defeated, this spell is removed, the duration expires, or the target dies. This illusionary beast can only be seen by the target. 

In order for anyone other than the target to discover the illusion, they must have knowledge of this spell. Sorcerers can always discover it, but those who do 

not must attempt and succeed on a success roll with the sage skill’s _knowledge_ . Its target score is 16. However, even if you cannot discover it, it's possible to determine that the target is being attacked by an invisible monster, so although you cannot attack this monster _directly_ , you can still support the target _indirectly_ (casting an _Enchant Weapon_ spell on the target's weapon, healing their wounds with a _Healing_ spell, etc.). Damage dealt by an illusionary beast is not an illusion, but is actually treated as a reduction in life force. 

## **Illusionary Beast** 

Monster Level=8 

Rarity=16 (However, a sorcerer always knows) Agility=18 Movement=Never leaves the target's side Attack Points=Claw:16 (9)/Claw:16 (9) Strike Points=15 

Evasion Points=17 (10) Defense Points=13 Life Points/Resistance=18/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=-/17 (10) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness 

## **[ Stun Cloud ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=30 meters Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Instant (Paralysis effect lasts 1 hour) 

Effect=Paralyzes the target's body within the area of effect, causing them to lose consciousness Type=Target score, lost Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area Resist=Negated effect 

_Stun Cloud_ turns the air within the area of effect into poison gas. All creatures within the area of effect must attempt to resist this spell. If you fail, your body will become paralyzed and you will lose consciousness at the same time. Those who successfully resist won't receive these effects. Unlike _Sleep Cloud_ , a creature who loses consciousness from this spell cannot be woken up by damage, kicking them or shaking them, they will remain unconscious for one hour. However, if you remove it with _Dispel_ 

_Magic_ , they will regain their consciousness. 

## **[ Force Field ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=32 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Creates an invisible magical barrier around the caster, protecting them from physical attacks 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

This spell is invisible around the caster's body, moreover it creates a magical barrier that changes shape with the caster's movement. This barrier works to reduce damage from attacks such as weapons, etc. The damage it can reduce is 30 points. The caster can also add their own damage reduction to this. As a result, most physical attacks should be nullified, but you will be wounded if your defense roll is _double ones_ , or if you receive _more_ than 30 points of damage. Even if you fall from a very high place or a huge piece of rubble falls on you, you will still be wounded if the damage you receive exceeds 30 points. This spell also prevents attacks from magical weapons. However, it cannot prevent damage from pure magic, such as _Energy Bolt_ or _Fireball_ , nor damage from fire, acid, etc. 

## **[ Lightning Bind ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Capture the target with a net of electricity, which deals strike power 20 damage each round. 

Type=Target score, damage (Electric-type) Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

_Lightning Bind_ is a spell that entangles the target in a net of electricity, completely sealing their movement. Furthermore, you can deal electric shock damage to the target every round. Its strike power is 20. If the target successfully resists, the damage is 

80 

reduced (following the rules for damage magic) and the target can move. However, in this case, they will take a -4 penalty to the final score of all success rolls, because they must fight against the pain and binding they receive from the electric net. 

You may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. You can determine the damage by rolling the dice each round. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **[ Wraith Form ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=1 day Effect=Can withdraw from the ethereal body and become a wraith 

Type=Non-removable, lost Expansion=Duration Resist=None 

A caster who casts this spell will be able to separate their spiritual body from their physical body, allowing only their ethereal body to move around freely. This ethereal body is called a wraith. Wraiths are a kind of undead, but they can resume their life activities once they return to their own bodies. If you do not (or cannot) return to your original body after the spell's duration has expired, you will lose complete contact with your body, and must remain adrift for eternity as a wraith. The same applies if your body is destroyed (your life force or life points become 0 or less) while you are a wraith. If the wraith itself is destroyed, the caster dies. In this case, the body becomes nothing more than an empty husk without a soul, so it cannot be brought back to life by any means. 

See p. 219 for wraith details. 

## **9th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Command Golem ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch 

Area=1 golem 

Duration=Permanent 

Effect=You can control and give commands to golems that have not received commands yet 

Type=Target score, non-removable Expansion=Resist=None 

This spell is _not_ a spell that creates golems. It's only a spell that gives _commands_ to a golem. Moreover, the target golem must be in a state where _no_ commands have been given. This spell is ineffective on a golem that's _already_ following a command. Golems in a state without commands are extremely rarely found, but may be found in the ruins of the ancient kingdom. 

## **[ Control Weather ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=Caster 

Area=An area within a 10 kilometer radius of the caster 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Change the weather within the area of effect 

Type=Focus, Target score, non-removable Expansion=Final score, area Resist=None 

This is a spell that can change the weather within its area of effect. Weather changes begin on the round you cast the spell, and the spell is completed in 10 rounds. Even if someone is within the area of effect, they cannot resist this spell. This spell is _non-removable_ , but if two _Control Weather_ spells are cast within the same area of effect, the one with the higher final score will take effect, and the one with the lower final score will be negated. 

Weather you can change to includes sunny, cloudy, rainy, foggy, or snowy. It has nothing to do with the weather, season, etc. before the spell was cast. As the spell ends, the weather will return to its natural state. However, effects caused 

by this spell will remain and cannot be removed. 

Below is a brief description of the extent of the weather. 

_Sunny_ ： The sky within the area of effect will be completely clear of clouds. Depending on the angle of the sun, the sun will shine during the day and the ground will be warm. At night, you’ll be able to see the moon and stars. 

_Cloudy_ ： The sky within the area of effect is covered by clouds, hiding the sun. Since direct sunlight is blocked, the area becomes darker and the temperature on the ground decreases. At night, the moon and stars will be hidden, making it a dark night. 

_Rainy_ ： Rain clouds cover the sky, the conditions will be the same as cloudy. In addition, rain will begin to fall at about 10 mm per hour, wetting the ground. 

_Foggy_ ： Visibility within the area of effect is 5 meters or less for fog. 

_Snowy_ ： Snow clouds cover the sky, the conditions will be the same as cloudy. In addition, snow will begin to fall at about 10 mm per hour. The surrounding temperature will drop to 0°celsius. 

## **[ Disintegrate ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One individual or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Break the target down into the smallest unit of matter, annihilating them Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

Targets who have this spell cast on them and fail to resist will, after a moment of brightness, be broken down into the smallest unit of matter they were composed of, literally disappearing. It's impossible to regenerate a target that has become like this. If it was a living thing, it can never be revived again, and cannot be revived by _Resurrection_ . 

81 

Usually it's limited to 1 cubic meter, but by expanding the volume, it's possible to cast it on a larger target. 

## **[ Petrification ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=36 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Petrify your opponent Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 