# 3.1 Action Announcements

## **Action Announcements** 

## **3.1** 

same group (e.g., a1, a2, a3 within group A) may be determined freely and can also be changed from round to round. 

## **3.1.1** 

## **Order of Action Announcements** 

If there are three or more groups instead of two, the order of action announcements is determined in the same way. The groups with the higher intelligence can decide on their actions later than the others. 

Each round begins with an announcement of what your character intends to do. 

In combat, there are basically two opposing groups. **Action announcements** are made by each group. 

In an action announcement, you cannot declare something impossible. Casting a spell while running at full speed is prohibited by the rules. If there's an enemy in front of you that’s attacking you, attacking another enemy several meters away is not possible, just by common sense. These impossible actions cannot be declared, as a matter of course. 

Suppose there are three characters, a1, a2, and a3 in **group A** and two characters, b1 and b2 in **group B** . In this case, the order of action announcements is **A → B** or **B → A** . Characters who belong to different groups, such as **a1→b1→a2** ...... do _not_ take turns to announce their actions. 

Which of the two will make their action announcements first is determined based on _intelligence_ . The group with the _highest_ intelligence among all the characters (including monsters, etc.) participating in combat will announce their action _later_ . If _a2_ is the one with the highest intelligence between groups A and B as mentioned, then the announcements are made in the order of _B → A_ , regardless of the intelligence of the other characters. Those who announce their actions later- the ones with highest representative intelligence --will have a significant advantage because they can announce their own actions _after_ hearing their opponents' announcements. 

## **3.1.2** 

## **Player Action Announcements** 

A player must be specific when announcing their action. 

Instead of _attack with my weapon_ , they should say _attack the rightmost goblin with my sword_ . 

Instead of _use magic_ , they should say 

_cast a_ _**fireball** spell._ 

You must be specific in this way. If the game master asks a question, be sure to answer it clearly. 

## **3.1.3** 

## **NPC and Monster Action Announcements** 

If the two groups are _equal_ in intelligence (i.e., the highest intelligence in each group is the same), compare the _second_ highest in each group. If those are _also_ the same, then compare the _third_ highest. 

When NPCs, monsters, etc. announce their actions, it’s done by the game master who manages them. Specific action announcements may not be made at this time. 

If a settlement cannot be reached, the game master gets to announce their group's actions first (NPCs and monsters) and then the players follow. 

For example, simply say, _I am about to open my big mouth_ . They won't know if it’s opening its mouth to bite, or perhaps even breathe fire. 

The order in which action announcements are made within the 

You may only declare, _I'm preparing to cast a spell_ , and not give out the specific name of the spell. This is the difference in position between the players and the game master. The game master, as the person who manages the game, must know the actions of all the characters and monsters that appear. However, the players should only act from their _characters’_ point of view. So, if a _character_ cannot predict something, the _player_ cannot know it either. When you see it for the first time, you won't know how a monster you don't recognize will act, and when an enemy tries to cast a spell you don't recognize, you won't know what that spell does. 

Of course, if a character has a wealth of knowledge, or if they’re an advanced spellcaster, they _might_ know such things. If it's something the character _should_ know, the game master should tell you when they announce the action. 

35