Also, this spell has absolutely no effect on walls made of wood. 

If this spell is used at the feet of a human, etc. those present can attempt to resist. If the resist is successful, the hole will open, but those on top will be able to immediately jump out of the way and prevent themselves from falling into the hole (assuming they have a place to escape, of course). If the resist fails, the hole will open slowly and they will not suffer damage from the fall. 

Once the duration has expired, the hole will slowly return to its original state. At this time, those at the bottom of the hole will _not_ be buried alive. This is because the bottom of the hole will rise back up. 

88 

## **Table 5-5: Fears** 

- 2D Result 

- 2[The target goes berserk from a state of panic. Attack points +2, evasion points -4. Even those with intelligence can no longer act rationally and ] cannot use magic, etc. 

- 3 Same as above 

- 4 Target is struck by panic and is prevented from taking action. Take a -1 penalty on all success rolls 

- 5 Same as above, but penalty is -2 

- 6 Same as above, but penalty is -3 

- 7 Target runs away. They go berserk if that’s not possible. 

- 8 Target runs away. If that's not possible, they act with a -3 penalty 

- 9 Target runs away. If that's not possible, they freeze in fear and become unable to act 

- 10 Target freezes in fear. They become unable to act 

- 11 Same as above 

- 12 Target loses consciousness from fear. It takes 1 hour to regain consciousness naturally 

## **[ Fear ]** 

## **(Shade/Dark Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=12 Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Puts fear into an opponent Type=Mind Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets, effect Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of instilling fear in the target. An opponent who suffers the effect of this spell will feel an immeasurable fear towards the caster. For those affected, please determine the specific effect according to Table 5-5: Fears. 

This spell's effect can be expanded. If expanded, make an equivalent number of checks on the _Fears_ table, then apply which result the caster finds most desirable. 

## **[ Restore Health ] (The Unknown Spirit of Life)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Heals the target from poison or illness Type=Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell can only be used _by_ women. Of course, it's okay if the _target_ is a man. 

With this spell, the target will be completely free from the effects of poison and illness. You could say it's an effect that combines the holy magic of _Cure Poison_ and _Cure Disease_ . You can heal multiple poisons and illnesses at the same time. 

## **5th Level Spirit Magic List** 

## **[ Control Plant ]** 

## **(Ent/Greater Plant Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=1 plant Duration=Until focus ends Effect=Can control plants as one Type=Focus, target score Expansion=Final score, distance Resist=None 

This is a spell that allows you to control plants by borrowing the power of ent, which is the greater spirit of plants. This allows you to control all plants at will. It is also effective against plant-type monsters, but if the opponent has a mental point resistance score, you must make a success roll using magic power as the baseline score and attain a final score greater than or equal that resistance score. This spell can also move plants that normally wouldn't move, allowing them to directly participate in attacks. In this case, the ent will directly possess the plant and exert physical power, so its 

attack points, evasion points, etc. will always be the following scores. 

Monster Level =5 Rarity=15 Agility=6 Movement Speed=6 Attack Points=12 (5) Evasion Points=12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=-/12(5) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity, Weak to fire 

The scores for strike points, defense points, and life points/resistance will depend on the size of the plant being controlled, but for a normal tree they will be about as follows. 

Strike Points=10 Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=30/15(8) 

The game master should modify these scores according to the size of the plant being controlled. Additionally, if the spell is removed by _Dispel Magic_ , etc. the controlled plants will immediately return to their original tree state. 

## **[ Shoot Arrow ] (Sylph/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=30 meters 

Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Automatically hit the target with a strike power 20 arrow 

Type=Counters (Negates): _Missile Protection_ 

89 

Expansion=Distance, targets Resist=None 

When you cast this spell, the caster's arrow will be carried by a sylph, ensuring that it hits the target. The strike power of the arrow is a uniform 20, the magic power of the caster is used as bonus damage. Also, if you roll 10 or greater on your damage check, a _critical_ will occur. The target cannot resist this spell. However, armor protection is effective. 

This magic is a counter spell to the spirit magic _Missile Protection_ , so when the target of the arrow is under the influence of _Missile Protection_ , the wind spirit powers of the same nature will interfere with each other, nullifying both. 

It is possible to expand the effect of this spell to launch multiple arrows and attack multiple targets at once. However, you cannot launch multiple arrows at a single target at once. Note that this spell cannot deal damage to monsters that can only be wounded by silver or magical weapons, such as werewolves, etc. (unless the arrow itself is magical or silver). 

## **[ Charm ] (Dryad/Plant Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 Distance=20 meters Area=One Duration=1 week Effect=Charms the target Type=Mind, target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

Dryad is a plant spirit which at the same time has the nature of a mind spirit. This spell has the effect of using the dryad's mind spirit power to charm the target. At this time, if both your intentions are _mutual_ , you can make them follow your will in the form of a proposal, and if your intentions are _not_ mutual, you will deprive them of hostility. In either case, the target under the spell will attempt to protect the caster from danger. If the target successfully resists this spell, they will not suffer any effects. Additionally, if the caster loses their life 

for any reason, the spell's effect will be canceled immediately. 

This spell cannot be used if there are no plants in your surroundings. Dryads are not spirits that are always present in the minds of humans (or other creatures). 

## **[ Valkyrie Javelin ] (Valkyrie/Mind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 

Distance=20 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Create a strike power 30 energy javelin 

Type=Damage (Pure energy-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

By casting this spell, the caster can strike the target with a javelin of light. Its strike power is 30. This javelin will always hit the target as long as they're within the caster's view, even if they're not in the line of fire. 

Please note that this spell can only be used _by_ men. 

## **[ Missile Protection ] (Sylph/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=20 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=18 rounds Effect=Protect yourself from projectile attacks 

Type=Countered (Negated) By: _Shoot Arrow_ Expansion=Duration, distance, area Resist=None 

This spell specifies a point in space and affects the space within a 5 meter radius from it. Its effect is to protect those within range from projectile attacks. However, projectiles with a strike power that _exceeds_ 30 are beyond the limits of sylph's abilities, and therefore _cannot_ be the target of the effect. 

It’s up to the caster to decide who to protect with this spell. The spell's power does not have to affect targets that the caster does not desire, even if they are within the area of effect. 

## **6th Level Spirit Magic List** 

## **[ Control Sound ] (Sylph/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 30 meter radius from the caster 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Manipulate the echoes of sounds within the area of effect Type=Focus Countered (Overpowered) By: _Silence_ Expansion=Final score, area Resist=Negated effect 

When you cast this spell, you can control the echoes of any sound that occurs within a 30 meter radius around the caster, no matter what it may be. You can make it so that only certain people can hear specific sounds, or conversely, you can make them inaudible. Any number of people can be targeted and made to hear or not hear sounds, as long as they're within the area of effect. Moreover, the targets can be chosen completely at the caster's discretion. For example, you can let your allies hear a spellsong that raises their morale without giving the enemy an advantage, or you can have secret conversations in a crowded place full of people while staying separate. However, the caster who is focusing the spell can only control _one_ type of sound source at a time. If the caster desires, they can also switch the sound source they control each round. 

Those within the area of effect can attempt to resist and, if successful, escape the spell's influence. 

## **[ Spirit Wall ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=30 meters Area=10 x 3 x 0.5 meters Duration=1 hour Effect=Put up a wall using spirits 

This spell has the effect of creating a wall in a specified area using certain spirit power. Some walls may block your gaze, preventing attacks from spells and projectiles. There are also walls that you cannot pass through, walls that deal damage even if you force your way 

90 

through, etc. Walls can be negated by _Dispel Magic_ or _Suppress Elemental_ , or countered by the opposing _Spirit Wall_ . The wall is normally 0.5 meters thick, but you can consume extra mental power to expand the target size and make it thicker (as long as you do not change the length or height of the wall, the thickness will increase as the expansion rate increases). 

You cannot build a wall where other materials such as rocks, trees, or living things already exist. Furthermore, once a wall is put up, it _cannot_ be moved or removed by the caster's will. The types of spells are divided by the lesser spirits that control them, and the walls created by each spell each have different characteristics depending on their spirit power. 

## **Spirit Wall: Wisp** 

## (Will-O-Wisp/Light Spirit) 

Type=Target score, damage (Pure energytype) 

Counters (Negates): _Shade_ , _Spirit Wall: Shade_ Countered (Negated) By: _Shade_ , _Spirit Wall: Shade_ 

Countered (Overpowered) By: _Darkness_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

With the help of the spirit of light, you can build a dazzling wall of light. The wall of light is not a solid entity, but a collection of will-o-wisps themselves. Therefore, the space on either side of the wall of light is illuminated with a brightness like midday. The glow from the wall is so intense that you can't look directly at it (so your gaze won't pass through it). The wall of light has no way to prevent objects from passing through it, so you can pass through it without any resistance. However, if you touch the wall or try to pass through it, you will destroy the will-o-wisps forming the wall. At this time, make a resistance roll, and if you fail, you will suffer strike power 10 damage. 

The wall of light cannot be destroyed by physical methods or damage magic, but when the dark spirit shade collides 

with the wall, a round hole about 50 cm Counters (Negates): _Spirit Wall: Undine/Frau_ in diameter will be created. At this time, Countered (Negated) By: _Spirit Wall_ the shade will also vanish. If _Spirit Wall: Undine/Frau Shade_ is used in the same place, their Countered (Overpowered) By: _Heat Protective Circle_ effects will negate each other, and both Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, walls will vanish. 

Countered (Overpowered) By: _Heat Protective Circle_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume, damage Resist=Reduced effect 

A wall of light cannot be put up within the area of effect of the ancient magic _Darkness_ . Also, if the magical darkness created by _Darkness_ and the wall of light overlap, the wall will end there. 

Create a wall of blazing fire by borrowing the power of the fire spirit. When you chant this spell, tongues of fire rush everywhere, swell up as if they're going to explode, then become a large mass of flames. A wall of fire cannot be seen through. It is possible to pass through, but upon touching the wall or trying to pass through it, you will be rammed by the salamander and suffer strike power 10 damage. 

## **Spirit Wall: Undine** 

## (Undine/Water Spirit) 

Type=Target score 

Counters (Negates): _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Negated) By: _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ 

A wall of fire cannot be destroyed by physical means or magic that deals damage. 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

Create a wall of water by borrowing the power of water spirits. When you chant this spell, a stream of water separates from a single point in the air and radiates out in countless streaks, which eventually hang down in a continuous curtain. Undine is waiting inside the water wall. Water walls do not obstruct your gaze, but projectiles cannot pass through them. Anything that attempts to touch or pass through the wall must attempt to resist. If you succeed, you will only get a little wet and you will be able to pass through the wall, but if you fail, you will be swallowed up by the wall. Those inside the wall will automatically drown after a number of rounds equal to their life force (points) have elapsed, unless rescued from the outside. You cannot escape on your own. Moreover, any rescuers must also be able to get inside the wall in order to save those that have been swallowed up by it. A wall made of water can't be destroyed by physical means or even magic that deals damage, as it quickly compensates for any damaged areas. 

## **Spirit Wall: Shade** 

## (Shade/Dark Spirit) 

Type=Target score, damage (Mind-type) Counters (Negates): _Will-O-Wisp_ , _Spirit Wall: Wisp_ 

Countered (Negated) By: _Will-O-Wisp_ , _Spirit Wall: Wisp_ 

Countered (Overpowered) By: _Light_ , _Holy Light_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target score, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

By borrowing the power of the dark spirit, you can put up a wall of darkness. A wall of darkness is a collection of shades. The wall itself is pitch black, and the space up to 5 meters on either side of the wall will also be closed in darkness. Your gaze cannot pass through a wall of darkness. However, it has no means of preventing the passage of objects, so you can pass through it without any resistance. However, if you touch or try to pass through the wall, you will destroy the shades that form the wall, and you will suffer strike power 10 damage to your mental power (points). 

The wall of darkness cannot be destroyed by physical methods or damage magic, but when the spirit of light will-o-wisp collides with the wall, a 

## **Spirit Wall: Salamander** 

(Salamander/Fire Spirit) Type=Target score, damage (Fire-type) 

91 

round hole 50 cm in diameter will be created. At this time, the will-o-wisp will also vanish. If _Spirit Wall: Wisp_ is used in the same place, their effects will negate each other, and both walls will vanish. 

A wall of darkness cannot be put up within the area of effect of the ancient magic _Light_ . Also, if the magical light created by _Light_ and the wall of darkness overlap, the wall will end there. 

## **Spirit Wall: Sylph** 

## (Sylph/Wind Spirit) 

Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

By borrowing the power of the wind spirit, you can create a wall of surging storms. When you chant the spell, a wild gust of wind comes out of nowhere and begins swirling in the same place. The storm wall is transparent, so it won't block your gaze, but all projectile attacks, including those from _Shoot Arrow_ , will be deflected in front of you by the sylphs lurking in the wind. Those that touch the wall or try to pass through it must attempt to resist. If you succeed, you will be able to pass through the wall without incident, but if you fail, you will be blown away in the opposite direction from the wall. The storm wall cannot be destroyed by physical methods or magic that deals damage. 

## **Spirit Wall: Dryad** 

## (Dryad/Plant Spirit) 

Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=None 

By borrowing the power of plant spirits, creates a wall of living vegetation consisting of vines and thorn bushes. When you chant the spell, vines will sprout from the ground and entangle each other, filling the gaps with thorn bushes. You can't see through it, and you can't pass through it. 

This wall _can_ be destroyed by weapons or magic. For more information, please refer to _18.3: Rules_ 

_for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). However, this wall regenerates by growing new trees one after the other. Even if the wall is completely destroyed, it will continue to regenerate for the duration of the spell. 

## **Spirit Wall: Gnome** 

## (Gnome/Earth Spirit) 

Type=Target score Countered (Overpowered) By: _Tunnel_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=None 

By borrowing the power of the earth spirit, you can build a smooth wall made of solid rock. When you chant this spell, a number of stone slabs break through the ground and rise up in a flash, creating a seamless wall. A rock wall blocks your gaze and cannot be passed through without making a hole in the wall. 

For details on the destruction of this wall, please refer to _18.3: Rules for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). 

## **Spirit Wall: Frau** 

## (Frau/Ice Spirit) 

Type=Target score, damage (Cold-type) Counters (Negates): _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Negated) By: _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Cold Protective Circle_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

By borrowing the power of the ice spirits, you can build a freezing wall of ice. When you chant the spell, cold mist gathers and becomes frost, then the frost rises in bands of ice. Your gaze can see through the ice wall, but you cannot pass through it. It's made of magical ice, so if you touch this wall, you will be exposed to the cold air radiated from the ice and take strike power 10 damage. 

This wall can be destroyed by weapons or magic. For more information, please refer to _18.3: Rules for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). 

## **[ Decrease Water Pressure ] (Undine/Water Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=1 hour Effect=Relieves water pressure when diving Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

Targets under this spell are saved from the effects of water pressure when diving deep underwater. All water pressure exerted on the body by the spell will be alleviated regardless of its strength, and reduced to a point where normal actions are no longer a problem. If you cast this spell, you can fight underwater without any penalties at all. 

In addition, to actually dive, it is essential to use _Water Breathing_ in order to be able to breathe underwater. 

## **[ Preserve Sound ] (Sylph/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Until sound is transmitted 

Effect=Record and transmit sound to a specific location Type=- 

Expansion=Distance, area Resist=None 

This spell has the effect of recording a sound and transmitting it to a specific location. It secures a sylph in place and allows it to transmit recorded sounds to others. You can optionally determine the person to whom the sound is transmitted to some extent, such as the first person to step into that space. However, in order to specify a specific person, the caster must be familiar with the person's features and appearance. Also, at the same time you cast the spell, you must also generate the sound you want to transmit. It's also _not_ possible to use this to record spells and activate them. Even if _Silence_ is cast later, this spell still takes effect. 

Once the sound is transmitted, the effect of this spell vanishes. 

92 

## **7th Level Spirit Magic List [ Windstorm ]** 

## **(Djinn/Greater Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Create a tornado, knocking targets prone within range and dealing strike power 10 damage. 

Type=Target score, damage (Wind cuttertype) 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell creates a tornado in a 10 meter radius around a point in space. Anyone except the caster within the spell's area of effect, or who attempts to enter the tornado during the spell's duration must attempt to resist. Those who successfully resist will move at half their normal movement speed (there is no change in their action order) and can take actions with a -2 penalty on success rolls such as attack, evasion, etc. However, those who fail to resist are slammed to the ground and can only move 3 meters per round while crawling on the ground for the duration of the spell. When attacking, evading, etc. in this state, all will suffer a -4 penalty. 

Additionally, the tornado creates a vacuum that cuts the skin and flesh of those within its area of effect, dealing strike power 10 damage. The cutting damage continues to have an effect until the target leaves the area of effect. Damage is determined by making a strike roll each round. Only the first attempt to resist this spell counts. Objects weighing less than 10 kilograms or equipment held in the hand or not securely attached to the body will be blown out of the area of effect. 

## **[ Crack ] (Behemoth/Greater Earth Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 Distance=30 meters Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Trap the target between a crack in the ground, dealing strike power 30 damage Type=Damage (Earthquake-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, target volume, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that creates deep cracks, causing the ground underfoot to cave in, and swallowing the target in a deep chasm created this way. If a target falls into the cracks, they will first be buried in the ground up to their chest, and then be caught between the closing bedrock. Then, by being crushed between the bedrock, they will suffer strike power 30 damage. The effect of the spell is momentary, but once something is swallowed up by the crack, it cannot climb out of it on its own. It remains trapped in the crack until someone else pulls it out, which takes one round. When trapped in the ground, there is a - 4 penalty to attack power (points) and evasion speed (points). If you successfully resist the spell, you will avoid being swallowed by the crack and will not be affected. 

Note that this spell can also be used on targets larger than human size by expanding its effect. 

## **[ Valkyrie Blessing ] (Valkyrie/Mind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Gives pure energy protection to the target's armor, absorbing incoming damage Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 