# 3.4 Movement and Actions

engaged with attempt to withdraw (flee), even if they have high agility, you can still 

attack, and you will have a higher chance of hitting than usual. 

## **Movement and Actions** 

## **3.4** 

1 round lasts _10 seconds_ . Therefore, a character can also move during this time. However, when **movement** is made, actions are restricted. You cannot wield weapons or cast spells while running at full speed. 

Naturally, you can advance farther, but the restrictions on your actions will also be greater. At this time, attacks from the enemy are also much more likely to hit. 

The distance you can go with full movement is **character's agility x 3** meters. For monsters, their **movement speed** is set separately from agility, so they can move up to **movement speed x 3** meters. 

Characters have three options for movement: **full movement** , **normal movement** , or **stand still** . Each has different distances that can be traveled and different restrictions on actions that can be taken. 

The following actions can be taken during full movement: 

Below are some guidelines on how movement works and which actions can be taken. For any other actions, please use _common sense_ based on the time frame of 1 round = 10 seconds. Final decisions are to be made by the game master. 

## **Ready a Sheathed Weapon** 

You can wield up to two, one in each hand. If you want to switch your weapon from a projectile such as a bow, to a melee weapon, you can drop your previous weapon on the ground, and then you can ready a new weapon. This is because, from the beginning, it’s assumed your hands were empty. 

## **3.4.1** 

**Actions You Can Take Regardless of Movement Method** 

However, this is limited to items that are already worn and ready to go, such as those kept in a sheath. You _cannot_ pick up a weapon that was left on the ground. If you’re carrying a shield on your back, you can also ready it. 

The following actions can be taken _at any time_ , regardless of the movement method. They do not prevent other actions at all. 

## **Drop a Weapon, Etc. On the Ground** 

## **Switch a Weapon From Hand to Hand** 

Weapons and shields can be dropped on the ground at _any time_ , regardless of whether they're one-handed, twohanded, or both-handed. If you do drop a weapon, etc. consider it as if you _never had it in the first place_ , then choose your action. 

You can move something in your right hand to your left hand, or hold something you had in one hand with both hands. 

Some weapons can be held in either one or both hands. If you have such a weapon in one hand and a shield in the other, if you drop the shield, the weapon is now considered to be in only one hand, so you can then hold it with both hands. 

## **3.4.2** 

## **Actions You Can Take During Full Movement** 

## **Sheath a Weapon, Etc.** 

You can sheath up to two, one in each hand. However, this is only possible if there is a sheath, etc. You can also place a shield on your back. 

## **Withdraw (Flee) From Engagement** 

You can escape from an opponent within melee attack range. 

If an attack is declared on a character who is withdrawing, another character is needed to suffer the enemy's attack in their place (defend against the attack). 

If you do not have a companion to take on your opponent, you will escape with your back completely turned, and you will suffer a **-4 penalty** when evading the attack. Also, in that case, regardless of your character's agility, they will only escape at the _end_ of the round (agility 0, based on action order). In other words, there is _always_ a chance for the enemy to attack a character before they withdraw. 

## **3.4.3** 

## **Actions You Can Take During Normal Movement** 

This is movement while staying alert to your surroundings. 

The distance you can move is a **number of meters equal to your character's agility** (or a monster's **movement speed** ). 

At this time, the following actions are possible: 

## **Ready a Weapon** 

As during full movement, you can ready a weapon from a sheath, etc. 

You can wield up to two, one in each hand. 

Full movement means that a character runs without looking aside. 

37

## **Sheath a Weapon, Etc.** 

The same as during full movement. 

## **Pick a Weapon Up off the Ground and Ready It** 

If a weapon or shield has fallen on the ground, you can pick it up and ready it. However, that weapon _cannot_ be used to attack this round. 

## **Switch Out a One-** 

## **Handed Weapon** 

Return a weapon in your hand to its sheath, etc. and ready a _different_ weapon. Only _one_ can be switched out. For example, if you have a sword and a shield, you _cannot_ return them both and ready a different weapon. 

If you do have a sword and a shield, you can drop _one_ of them on the ground, return the _other_ one, then ready a different weapon. If you drop one of the things you were holding, it's as if you were only holding one from the beginning. 

## **Ready a Weapon and Attack** 

Take a weapon out of a sheath, etc. that you’re wearing and use it to attack immediately. However, bows and other projectiles _cannot_ be used to attack while moving. 

## **Switch a Weapon's** 

## **Hands and Attack** 

Switch a weapon you’re using with only one hand to _both_ hands and attack. This action may be effective if you have a weapon that can be used with one or both hands. 

If you’re holding a weapon in one hand and a shield in the other, and that weapon can be used with both hands, you can drop the shield on the ground and attack with both hands, since it's as if you were holding the weapon in only one hand from the beginning. 

## **Attack with a Readied** 

## **Weapon** 

If you already have a weapon ready, you can of course attack with that weapon. However, bows and other projectiles cannot be used to attack while moving. 

## **3.4.4** 

## **Actions You Can Take While Standing Still** 

Although stationary, you do not have to remain completely still; you can move up to **3 meters** . 

In this state, all _actions you can take during normal movement_ described in the previous section can be performed. 

## **Use Magic and Projectiles** 

Above all, the advantage of _standing still_ is the ability to use magic and attack with projectiles. Conversely, if you are not _standing still_ , you _cannot_ use magic or projectiles. 

If you want to attack with a projectile, please follow the process of _actions you can take during normal movement_ . If you chose _stand still_ , then _attack with that weapon_ can be read as _attack with that projectile_ . However, when you're _engaged_ (being attacked by a melee weapon), you _cannot_ use projectiles. 

If you choose to _stand still_ , in addition to magic and projectiles, you can also take the following special action: 

## **Stand Up and Ready Yourself** 

From a state of falling down, stand up and ready yourself. You can only ready _one_ weapon, etc. that you’re wearing. You _cannot_ pick up any items on the ground. 

38