## **[ Freeze ]** 

**(Fenrir/Greater Ice Spirit)** Base Mental Power Cost=36 Distance=30 meters 

Area=One 

## Duration=Instant 

Effect=Instantly freezes the target, killing them instantly 

Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of completely freezing the target instantly. If you successfully resist the spell, there will be no effect, but if you fail, all life activities will cease and you will die immediately. This spell cannot exert its original effect on things that do not have living bodies with blood flowing through them, such as undead, golems, etc. and can only freeze the surface of their bodies and render them unable to act. 

Those killed by this spell will _not_ come back to life even when thawed. 

## **[ Maelstrom ]** 

## **(Kraken/Greater Water Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=500 meters 

Area=50 meter radius water surface Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Creates a maelstrom that sinks floating people and objects Type=Target score Counters (Overpowers): _Current_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area 

Resist=None 

This is a spell that creates a large whirlpool on the surface of the water, dragging everything floating within its range and sinking it. To cast this spell, a sea or lake with a depth of at least 100 meters is essential. The spell's effect can work on anything that can fit inside the whirlpool. 

If a ship is caught in the whirlpool, the person at the helm must make a success roll using the _ship steering_ ability. The baseline score is _sailor skill level/adventurer level + dexterity bonus_ for a small ship, and _sailor skill level + intelligence bonus_ for a large ship. The target score is the final score from when the spell was cast. For more information, 

please refer to the section  Sailor Skill (see p. 128). If successful, the ship will be able to safely survive the whirlpool, but if you fail, it will be swallowed up by the whirlpool and sink into the water. 

If the ship is swallowed up by the whirlpool, everyone on board will be thrown into the whirlpool. In that case, make a success roll using the _swim_ ability to determine whether you drown. 

## **10th Level Spirit Magic List** 

## **[ Neutralize Elemental ] (Various greater spirits)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 100 meter radius from the caster Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Appeal to the greater spirits to neutralize spirit power Type=Target score Counters (Overpowers): All magic that uses related spirit power Expansion=Final score, duration, area Resist=None 

This spell appeals to a greater spirit and completely neutralizes _one_ type of spirit power within its area of effect for a limited time. However, only one type of spirit power can be neutralized _at_ a time. Even if you expand this spell and use it, you _cannot_ neutralize two or more types of spirit power at the same time. This is the same even if multiple casters attempt it (only _one_ type of spirit power can be neutralized in _one_ space). 

Within the area of effect, any spirit magic that depends on the neutralized spirit power will no longer be able to be used, and any magic that had an effect will be canceled immediately. This spell's restrictions include the caster him or herself who appealed to the greater spirit. It’s _not_ that the spirit power ceases to exist; the lesser spirits still exist there, but they _temporarily_ become completely neutral and you won't be able to draw out their magical powers. This also applies to spirits sealed with spells such as _Control Spirit_ , etc. 

The greater spirits and spirit power that can be neutralized are as follows. Behemoth=Earth spirit power Kraken=Water spirit power Efreet=Fire spirit power Djinn=Wind spirit power Fenrir=Ice spirit power Ent=Plant spirit power 

## **5.1.15** 

## **Holy Magic and the Priest Skill** 

**Holy prayers** are runes used to contact the great beings, the _gods_ , and use that power as a source to perform various miracles. There are many gods in _Sword World_ , each drawing worship from humans and other intelligent races. 

In order to use **holy magic** , you need to have enough faith to be able to hear the voices of the gods. The gods' thought form is completely different from humans, therefore humans cannot fully understand it. This is because their words enter the mind as highly complex symbols. Runes called holy prayers were created during the ancient kingdom period as a means to give words to this and cause miracles. 

The caster uses these holy prayers to pray to the gods and activate the power of the spells. In addition, each holy magic has _special_ spells that can only be used by believers of a specific god. Those spells _cannot_ be used by members of other sects. 

The skill for using holy magic is called the _priest skill_ , and those who have the priest skill are called _priests_ . 

Among the many gods that exist in Forcelia, there are also those called **wicked gods** . The teachings of these wicked gods are extremely inconvenient for protecting human society, and many of them threaten the lives and property of others. Because of their anti-social nature, the followers of these wicked gods tend to be abhorred, and the magic used by the followers of these wicked gods is called **dark magic** and is distinguished from holy magic. The 

96 



priests of the wicked gods are not called priests, but **dark priests** . 

Game masters should _not_ allow characters to become priests of wicked gods. If you role-play according to the wicked gods' teachings, there is a high possibility that it will soon lead to the destruction of not only that PC, but also the party. 

## **Restrictions on Using 5.1.15.1 Holy Magic** 

There are no restrictions on armor or weapons to use the priest skill, and priests can cast magic simply by chanting holy prayers. However, this action must be in accordance with the _will_ of the god you believe in. If you try to use magic for a purpose that is far _removed_ from the god's will, it may not work at all. Also, a priest who loses _faith_ immediately loses their priest skill. 

Also, one character _cannot_ worship multiple gods. Those with the priest skill must choose only _one_ god to worship. 

## **5.1.15.2 The Six Major Gods** 

Among the gods of Alecrast, the six most powerful gods (and those with the greatest number of believers) are called the **six major gods** . These six major gods almost always have temples in most towns. 

These six major gods are **Pharis (the supreme god)** , the guardian of order and law, **Phalaris (the dark god)** , who rules over destruction and chaos, **Myrii (the god of war)** , the guardian of war and victory, **Rahda (the god of knowledge)** , who rules over wisdom and knowledge, **Cha Za (the god of trade)** , who is the god of luck and commerce, and **Marfa (the earth mother)** , the goddess of nature and agriculture, and the protector of marriage. 

Next, we will briefly illustrate the teachings of the six major gods, so game masters should take this as a hint and use them as a guideline for a priest's actions. 

## 《 **Pharis** 》 

Pharis's teachings are for people to act in an orderly manner and to achieve unchanging _justice_ in the world. It’s up to the game master to decide what is fair, but assault, murder, and for that matter, theft for fun, etc. cannot be called good acts. Also, he especially dislikes undead, monsters created by magic, or summoned from other planes as they’re impure (this is a characteristic common to most gods except wicked gods). His ardent believers include members of the ruling class such as kings, aristocrats, etc. 

## 《 **Myrii** 》 

He denies any acts of cowardice or cowardly behavior. He only supports righteous conflict, so he will not lend his strength to fights that are just for the sake of stealing or simply killing one another. His believers are knights and mercenaries. 

## 《 **Rahda** 》 

He doesn't have many restrictions, but he tends to dislike barbaric behavior. He teaches an intelligent way of life, and his doctrine is that if all things are wise, the world will be well. It seems that he has many believers among sages and sorcerers. 

## 《 **Cha Za** 》 

He prohibits causing misfortune to others. He also denies closed-minded thinking. He teaches that happiness can be achieved through conversation and interaction between people, such as through trade. Although he prohibits stealing, it's okay to claim something that doesn't have an obvious owner (such as lost property or treasure in ruins) as your own. His believers are the citizens living in towns. 

## 《 **Marfa** 》 

Her doctrine is expressed in the words _be natural_ . This is different from 

the concept of nature-worship, and her ideal is for humans to be in their natural state. She approves of fighting for selfdefense, but denies any other kind of fighting. She particularly encourages farming and hunting, which are basic activities indispensable for human survival. It seems that she has many believers among the poor, farmers, and hunters. 

## 《 **Phalaris (Wicked God)** 》 

Phalaris is a _wicked god_ . Game masters should _not_ allow player characters to worship this god. 

Followers of Phalaris recognize all desires inherent in the individual and affirm any means necessary to enhance one's own existence. He teaches that it is okay to do something, even if it means destruction or murder, as long as it is for your own benefit. What his followers aim for is complete freedom, and they dislike succumbing to the constraints of law, order, and morality. It is clear that those who follow these doctrines must eventually become wicked. Although there is no shortage of believers, it seems they often remain hidden in order to protect their own position. 

Temples of Phalaris often exist in large towns, but because he is considered a wicked god, they are confined to basements and secluded forests. However, the _kingdom of chaos_ **Phandria** , located in the central plains region, has Phalaris as its state religion, and the largest Phalaris temple in Alecrast is built there. 

These teachings are not formal, but express inner thinking. Therefore, players and game masters should use common sense when making judgments, rather than forcefully twisting the doctrine or interpreting it too rigidly. The gods see everything, but they also see from a vast perspective at the same time, so unless it's a very extreme act, they will not abandon a priest. However, this does _not_ mean that everything is forgivable, so game masters should only 

97 



confiscate the priest skill when the character repeatedly commits unjust acts or shows no remorse. Also, if this happens, don't forget to _warn_ them first. 

## **5.1.15.3 Other Gods** 

In addition to the six major gods, the following gods are also worshiped in Alecrast. Among these are wicked gods whose teachings are to bring disaster to the world. Player characters cannot worship wicked gods. 

## 《 **Fenes** 》 

Fenes is the younger brother of the supreme god Pharis, and is said to govern _things that repeat_ (cycles). During the war of the gods, it is said that he did not join the forces of darkness _nor_ the forces of light led by his older brother Pharis, choosing instead to take the position of king of the _neutral_ gods. Belief in him is not popular in Alecrast, and he has almost no temples. It is sometimes said that he is the true form of the _Nameless God of Madness_ (a wicked god, explained later), and he is also said to be the god of beastmen such as werewolves. 

## 《 **Wehner** 》 

He is the god of the arts and also the god of bards. He is also believed to write history, and so is also characterized as a god of destiny. Although he does not have great power, he is widely believed in by the masses, and his temples can be seen from time to time. Belief in him is especially popular among artists. 

## 《 **Ganerd** 》 

Although he is said to be the god of thieves, he was originally the god of craftsmanship, and so has believers among craftsmen. He is also considered the god of gifts, as he brings unexpected wealth. Temples dedicated to Ganerd can sometimes be seen in large towns, but his power is by no means great. 

## 《 **Braki** 》 

He is known as the god of smiths. However, he was originally the god of volcanoes, and because he told people that when you heat a stone, it melts like water, he was worshiped as the god of smiths. He has many believers among those who work in the mines, and he even has the personality of a chief god, especially among the dwarves. As a result, most dwarven settlements have built shrines to Braki. 

However, his temples are rarely seen in human cities. 

## **The Nameless God of** 

## **Madness (Wicked God)** 

He is the god of madness, and because of his madness, he is a deity whose name cannot be identified. It is said that he exists in the star world and causes people to go mad, and it is believed that those who come into contact with the light emitted by this mad god on a full moon's night will be afflicted with madness. His followers are few and he has no temples either. The priests of his cult teach that madness frees its believers from bondage and gives them freedom. It is said that he gives sudden inspiration that is not based in logic, and for this reason he is also considered the god of art and invention, so there are sometimes believers in this god among artists and sages. 

## 《 **Kardis (Wicked God)** 》 

She is feared as the goddess of destruction and the goddess of the undead, and is considered to be the goddess who controls the _end_ . Believers consider destruction and slaughter to be their mission anyway, as they believe that without destruction there can be no new beginning. Due to the nature of her faith, she has no temples, etc. but her doctrines have been continually passed down throughout the past and present, so she has believers. 

## 《 **Mirleaf (Wicked God)** 》 

He is the god of the dead of the sea, and teaches that life is pain and sin, and that death is the only way to be saved from it. Mirleaf believers believe that new challenges and efforts to survive (as exemplified by voyages) create and prolong suffering, and that a prompt death is the only mercy for those who do such things. 

He has almost no temples. Even if he did, they would never appear publicly. 

Game masters can also create original gods and spells in addition to these. This is a good thing, but it would probably be safer not to delve into actual religious issues. 

## **Basic Abilities of the 5.1.15.4 Priest Skill** 

Priests can use the following abilities. 

## 《 **Divination** 》 

This is the ability to pray and communicate with a god, asking whether or not one's actions are right. Occasionally a god will give you a **revelation** (given at the game master's discretion). However, a god's _words_ can only be understood abstractly by humans, and you _cannot_ ask detailed questions to the gods. 

Revelations should not be used too conveniently for the characters (players). It must be done _only_ when they absolutely need a word from their god to protect their faith. 

There is no need for a god (the game master) to respond to nonsense such as, _If I die in a trap here, I won't be able to believe properly, so let's ask if there is a trap at this door._ 

## 《 **Vow** 》 

This is a voluntary vow. When a priest wants to do something, they can make a _vow_ to their god. When a priest's actions contradict or move away from their vows, their god will give them some 

98