# 4.3 Projectile Restrictions

## **Weapon and Armor Restrictions** 

## **4.1** 

A very frail man, all skin and bones, dressed in heavy plate armor and wielding a long greatsword... 

A character's arms are largely divided into weapons, shields, and armor. Required strength should not be added up, but rather considered separately for each of these. In other words, a character with 14 strength can wield a weapon with a required strength of 14, wield a shield with a required strength of 14, and wear armor with a required strength of 14. 

All joking aside, however, if we want to be realistic, weapons and armor used should be limited by a character's strength. All weapons and armor have a required strength to use them. Characters may not use weapons or armor with a required strength greater than their own strength. 

Under the basic rules, a character can be armed with either one-handed 

## **Weapon Combat Skills** 

## **4.2** 

To be good at weapon combat, a character must have skills. The skills that can be used for this purpose are limited to the following three: 

## 【 **Thief Skill** 】 

A thief also has the ability to fight, but only with _light_ equipment. Specifically, you can only fight if the weapon or armor you're using requires up to _half (rounded up)_ of your character's strength. As for armor, it’s limited not only by required strength but also by _type_ . Metal armor other than ring mail may _not_ be used, even if the required strength (half of strength) is met. 

**Fighter skill** , **thief skill** , and **ranger skill** . 

## 【 **Fighter Skill** 】 

The fighter skill is the most basic skill for weapon combat. In the following explanation, we will focus on this skill. 

weapon + shield + armor or two-handed weapon + armor. Of course, one-handed weapon + armor, two-handed weapon without armor, etc. are also possible, and it is acceptable to carry a spare weapon on your waist or back, as long as it is within the bounds of common sense. However, you may not hold two weapons in both hands or hold a shield in each hand-- it is fine to do so, but a shield in your dominant hand or a weapon in your non-dominant hand is of no use. 

## 【 **Ranger Skill** 】 

The ranger skill is proficient with projectiles, and _only_ when using a weapon that is designated as such– _throwable_ , _made for throwing_ , or _shooting_ on Table 1-8: Weapons (see p. 21) - can they fight as well as a fighter when attacking. There is no ability to attack with melee weapons. Weapons that can be used for both melee _and_ throwing, as indicated by _throwable_ on the Weapons table, are useful _only_ when used for throwing, _not_ for melee. 

The ranger skill cannot be used for defense. 

## **Projectile Restrictions** 

## **4.3** 

There are some restrictions when handling projectiles such as bows and javelins. 

If an enemy is beyond this distance, the projectile will _not_ hit them. 

In addition, projectiles _cannot_ be used in melee. When there’s an enemy in front of you, you can _never_ use a projectile marked _shooting_ or _made for throwing_ . Weapons marked as _throwable_ can _also_ be used as melee weapons, but _not_ as projectiles. 

One is their **range** . There is no bow that has infinite reach. The maximum of shooting weapons such as bows and arrows– those marked _shooting_ on the Weapons table (see p. 21) --is **100m** , and of throwing weapons such as spears– those marked _throwable_ or _made for throwing_ on the Weapons table --is **20m** . 

Again, movement is _also_ restricted when using projectiles. A character must choose _stand still_ as their movement 

method, and can only move up to _3 meters in 1 round_ . 

40