# 4.4 Scores Used in Weapon Combat

## **Scores Used in Weapon Combat** 

## **4.4** 

using the same sized weapon. This is represented by **bonus damage** . 

During weapon combat, each of the following scores are used: 

Bonus damage is calculated with the following formula: 

**Attack power** , **strike power** , **bonus damage** , **critical target** , **evasion speed** , **defense power** , and **damage reduction** . 

**bonus damage** = fighter (thief/ranger) skill level + strength bonus 

## 【 **Attack Power** 】 

If fighter (or thief, ranger) skill level is _0_ , bonus damage is **0** regardless of the character's strength bonus. 

This is the number needed to determine whether a character's attack will hit or not. The higher this score, the higher the probability that a character's attack will hit. 

## 【 **Critical Target** 】 

Attack power is calculated with the following formula: 

If a weapon hits, it’ll sometimes deal more damage than normal. For example, when you successfully exploit a gap in your opponent’s armor, or when you successfully damage an opponent’s vital point, such as an eye. 

**attack power** = fighter (thief/ranger) skill level + dexterity bonus 

If fighter (or thief, ranger) skill level is _0_ , then attack power is **0** regardless of the character's dexterity bonus. 

In _Sword World RPG_ , this is resolved with a process called a **critical** . The **critical target** is the number needed to determine whether a critical occurs. 

Usually the critical target is **10** . However, when attacking with the _thief_ skill, it is instead **9** . 

## 【 **Strike Power** 】 

This is the number needed to determine how much damage a character's attack will deal if it hits. The greater this score, the more damage a character will deal. 

The critical target is a _lower is better_ score, which is rare in _Sword World RPG_ . Therefore, an attack using the thief skill is _more_ likely to result in a critical than an attack using the regular fighter skill. 

Strike power is the same number as the _required strength_ of the weapon used. However, if the weapon is a _two-handed_ weapon, it's instead _required strength + 5_ . 

**critical target** = 10 (9 if using thief skill) 

**strike power** = required strength of weapon (+5 if a two-handed weapon) 

## 【 **Evasion Speed** 】 

In combat, characters are not the only ones who can attack. Naturally, the enemy will also attack the characters. To evade an enemy's attack, a score called **evasion speed** is necessary. 

If a character does _not_ have a weapon (they’re _barehanded_ ), Strike Power is **0** . 

## 【 **Bonus Damage** 】 

A character with excellent evasion speed will be able to evade enemy attacks more easily. No matter how formidable the weapon, it's not _that_ scary if it doesn't hit. 

Characters with deep experience in combat can handle weapons effectively. In addition, characters with high strength can wield weapons more powerfully. These characters can deal more damage to their foes, even when 

**evasion speed** = fighter (thief) skill level + agility bonus 

If fighter (or thief) skill level is _0_ , then evasion speed is **0** regardless of the character's agility bonus. 

A character holding a _shield_ receives a +1 bonus to evasion speed. The size of the shield (whether it is a small or large shield) is completely irrelevant unless you introduce the optional rule _16.2: Weapon and Armor Modifiers_ (see p. 262). 

A fighter (or thief) skill level of 0 does _not_ prevent you from receiving this shield bonus. Therefore, the evasion speed of such a character will be **1** . 

## 【 **Defense Power** 】 

If by a stroke of bad luck, an opponent’s attack hits, a character can still reduce the damage by means of armor. It is **defense power** that represents this. 

Defense power is the same number as the _required strength_ of the armor worn by the character. 

**defense power** = required strength of armor 

If a character is not wearing any armor (just clothes or nothing at all), then defense power is **0** . 

## 【 **Damage Reduction** 】 

Those who are called heroes do not die from just a few injuries. In _Sword World RPG_ , a character with a high adventurer level, that is, a character who has a high level in any adventurer skill, is considered a _hero_ . Therefore, we determine a hero's resistance to death by their _adventurer level_ . 

**Damage reduction** is a score that reduces the damage a character would have taken. It’s exactly equal to a character's adventurer level. 

**damage reduction** = adventurer level 

41

## **Filling out the Character Sheet** 

Please write these scores in the designated fields on the Character Sheet. This will make the game run more smoothly. 

The entry fields may seem complicated, but this is to assist you when using _Chapter 16: Optional Rules for Combat_ (see p. 260). Now, don't worry about it too much. It is sufficient to write down each weapon, shield, and armor along with their required strength, as well as attack power, strike power, critical target, bonus damage, evasion speed, defense power, and damage reduction in the _total_ field at the bottom. 

Have you learned each of these terms? Now, let's get into the actual description of the combat procedure. Combat consists of two checks: one is made to determine if an attack _hits_ , and if the total result _is_ a hit, another is made to determine the _damage_ dealt by the attack. 

These procedures differ when the attacker and defender are _character against monster_ , _monster against character_ , or _character against character_ . There is one other case, _monster against monster_ , but since only the game master should know how to handle this case, we won’t explain it here. 

**==> picture [353 x 260] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [330 x 372] intentionally omitted <==**

42