# 4.5 Attacks From Characters Against Monsters

## **Attacks From Characters Against Monsters** 

## **4.5** 

**==> picture [337 x 496] intentionally omitted <==**

## **4.5.1 Hit Checks** 

When a character attacks a monster, they must make a success roll hit check, using _attack power_ as the baseline score. 

In other words, you roll 2D and add the result to your attack power (fighter/thief/ranger skill level + dexterity bonus) in order to meet or exceed a certain target score. 

The target score at this time varies depending on the monster. In the monsters' data, there is a score called **evasion points** , which becomes the target score. 

character's attack power + 2D ≥ monster's evasion points → **attack hits** 

character's attack power + 2D < monster's evasion points → **attack fails** `※` Double sixes will automatically hit, and double ones will automatically fail. 

Since a hit check is _also_ a type of success roll, double ones is an _automatic failure_ and double sixes is an _automatic success_ . 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II is fighting a goblin. His attack power is 4 (fighter skill level 2, dexterity bonus 2) and the goblin's evasion points are 10. 

His player rolls the dice to make a hit check. The roll is 8. 4+8= **12** , which is more than 10. The attack hit the target perfectly. 

43

**Table 4-1: Rating Table** 

|||Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||0|1|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9|10|11|12|13|14|15|16|17|18|19|
|2D|2|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|
||3|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|0|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|1|
||4|0|0|0|0|0|1|1|1|1|1|1|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|
||5|0|0|0|1|1|1|1|1|2|2|2|2|2|3|3|3|3|3|3|3|
||6|1|1|1|1|2|2|2|2|2|3|3|3|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|4|
||7|2|2|2|2|2|2|3|3|3|3|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|
||8|2|3|3|3|3|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|6|6|
||9|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|5|5|6|6|6|7|
||10|3|3|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|5|5|6|6|6|6|6|7|7|7|7|
||11|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|6|6|6|6|6|7|7|7|7|7|7|8|
||12|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|6|6|7|7|7|7|7|8|8|8|8|8|9|



|||Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|||||||||||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||20|21|22|23|24|25|26|27|28|29|30|31|32|33|34|35|36|37|38|39|
|2D|2|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|
||3|1|1|1|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|2|3|3|3|3|3|3|3|4|
||4|2|2|2|2|3|3|3|3|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|
||5|3|3|3|3|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|5|5|5|5|5|5|6|6|6|
||6|4|4|5|5|5|5|5|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|7|7|7|7|7|
||7|5|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|7|7|7|7|8|8|8|8|8|8|8|
||8|6|6|6|7|7|7|8|8|8|8|8|8|8|8|9|9|9|9|10|10|
||9|7|7|7|7|7|8|8|8|9|9|9|9|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|11|
||10|8|8|8|8|8|8|9|9|9|9|10|10|10|10|10|10|11|11|11|11|
||11|9|9|9|9|9|9|9|9|10|10|10|10|10|10|11|11|11|12|12|12|
||12|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|11|12|12|12|13|13|



|||Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number|Key Number||||
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|||40|41|42|43|44|45|46|47|48|49|50|
|2D|2|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|**|
||3|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|4|
||4|5|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|6|
||5|6|6|7|7|7|7|7|7|7|7|8|
||6|7|7|7|8|8|9|9|9|9|10|10|
||7|9|9|9|9|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|
||8|10|10|10|10|10|10|10|11|12|12|12|
||9|11|11|11|11|11|11|12|12|12|12|12|
||10|11|12|12|12|12|12|13|13|13|13|13|
||11|12|12|13|13|13|13|13|13|13|14|15|
||12|13|13|13|14|14|14|14|15|15|15|15|



## **4.5.2 Determining Base Damage (Strike Roll)** 

If your hit check is a success and you’re able to hit your target, the damage dealt to your opponent can be determined next. 

Damage calculation takes three steps: ① **Determine base damage** , ② **Add bonus damage** , and ③ **Subtract the monster's defense points** . 

The first step is to determine base damage. Use Table 4-1: Rating Table to determine base damage. 

The numbers are listed in a row, but of course there is no need to memorize them at all. 

On the table, look at the column where the **key number** equals your character's _strike power_ . For example, if your character's strike power is 14, you only need to look at key number column 14. 

**Table 4-2: Rating Table, Key Number Column 14** 

14 ** 1 2 3 4 4 4 5 6 7 8 

The player should then roll 2D. Follow along the row next to the result and look for the number under the key number column that matches your character's _strike power_ . That's the **base damage** . This process is called a **strike roll** . 

**Example:** 

44

Now that he’s hit the goblin, Ducard II must determine how much damage his strike dealt. His weapon is a broadsword (a one-handed weapon) with required strength 14, so his strike power is _14_ . 

The result of his 2D roll is 6, so the number on row _6_ under key number column _14_ on the Rating Table is **4** . Base damage is **4 points** . 

## 【 **0 Damage!** 】 

When making a strike roll, if your 2D roll is 2 (double ones), the result is ＊＊ regardless of the key number. This means your attack hit the target, but failed to deal any damage! 

Maybe it hit the hardest part of their armor, or maybe it only hit the hilt of a spear or ax, but _no_ damage was dealt. 

## 【 **Criticals** 】 

When making a strike roll, if your 2D roll is equal to or greater than the critical target (usually _10_ , _9_ if using the thief skill), the strike is **critical** . In other words, you have landed a greater strike than would normally be expected. 

Make a note of the score you got on the Rating Table. Then, roll 2D again and look under the same key number on the Rating Table. Add _that_ result to the previous result. This is your base damage. 

If the second 2D roll is _also_ greater than or equal to the critical target, you can make a third roll to add even _more_ damage. This process can continue as long as you keep rolling greater than or equal to the critical target. In theory, this could deal an infinite amount of damage. 

If a critical occurs, but you roll _double ones_ on the second and subsequent damage checks, _0_ is added to the previous result (i.e., the previous result remains the _same_ ), and the base damage check will end. It can _never_ be 0 damage. Rest assured. 

goblin with an attack, rolls a _10_ when determining base damage. This is a critical. The number on row 10 under key number column 14 on the Rating Table is **6** . We'll make a note of the 6 and roll the dice a second time. The roll is _12_ ! 

That’s still greater than the critical target. The number on row 12 is **8** , so we’ll make a note of the 8 and roll a third time. The roll is _6_ . This did not reach the critical target, so the base damage check ends here. Since the number on row 6 is **4** , the base damage dealt by Ducard `Ⅱ` is 6+8+4= **18** . 

If the third roll were a _2_ (double ones), the base damage would instead be 6+8+0= _14_ . 

## **4.5.3** 

## **Bonus Damage** 

Once you’ve determined base damage, you must then add your character’s bonus damage. This will be the total amount of damage the character _deals_ the monster. 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II's bonus damage is **4** (fighter skill level 2, strength bonus 2). If base damage is 4, the total damage is 4+4= **8** , 

- If base damage is 18, the total damage 

- is 18+4= **22** , 

- If base damage is 14, the total damage 

- is 14+4= **18** . 

When determining base damage (strike roll), if you suddenly roll double ones, the damage will always be _0_ . No matter how much bonus damage you have, it means nothing. 

## **4.5.4 Monster Defense Points** 

Monsters can repel and hold off attacks with their thick skins and hard scales. In monster data, this represented by **defense points** . This indicates the amount of damage a monster can reduce. Please note that a monster's _defense points_ are treated differently from a character's _defense power_ . 

## **Example:** 

A goblin has 4 defense points. The goblin can prevent **4 points of damage** with its skin. 

## **4.5.5** 

## **Final Damage** 

The total amount of damage a character deals ( _base damage + bonus damage_ ), minus the monster's _defense points_ , equals the **final damage** they’re able to deal to the monster. 

**final damage** = base damage + bonus damage - monster's defense points 

## **Example:** 

If the base damage dealt by Ducard II is _4, 18_ , or _14_ , respectively, the final damage he could deal to the goblin would be: 

4 (base damage) +4 (bonus damage) 

- -4 (goblin's defense points) = **4** 

18 (base damage) +4 (bonus damage) 

- -4 (goblin's defense points) = **18** 14 (base damage) +4 (bonus damage) 

- -4 (goblin's defense points) = **14** 

If final damage is _0 or negative_ , it means that _no damage_ was dealt. The attack was prevented by thick skin or hard scales. 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II's critical target is 10. Suppose that Ducard `Ⅱ` , having hit the 

45