# 4.6 Attacks From Monsters Against Characters

## **4.6** 

## **Attacks From Monsters Against Characters** 

**==> picture [337 x 441] intentionally omitted <==**

## **4.6.1** 

## **Hit (Evasion) Checks** 

When a monster attacks a character, whether or not the attack hits is determined from the perspective of _did the character dodge the monster's attack?_ . 

This check is also made with a success roll. 

The baseline score is the character's _evasion speed_ . The target score is still different for each monster, but it’s called the monster's **attack points** . 

evasion speed + 2D ≥ monster's attack points → **evasion success (monster's attack fails)** 

evasion speed + 2D < monster's attack points → **evasion failure (monster's attack hits)** `※` Double sixes will automatically evade, and double ones will automatically fail 

Since this is a success roll, double sixes and double ones are _automatic successes_ and _automatic failures_ , respectively. 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II has an evasion speed of _5_ (fighter level 2, agility bonus +2, has a shield). On the other hand, the goblin has _10_ attack points. 

The player rolls the dice to determine if they evade the goblin's attack. The roll is **4** . 5+4= **9** , which is short of the target score (the goblin's attack points) of 10. Ducard II is hit by the goblin. 

46

## **4.6.2 Damage Dealt by Monsters** 

If a monster's attack hits (or if a character fails to evade), you must look for the base damage dealt by the monster. 

This is determined for each monster by the monster’s **strike points** . Strike points are fixed and do not change. 

## **Example:** 

A goblin has _7_ strike points. 

## **4.6.3** 

## **Defense Rolls** 

Characters can reduce the damage they receive from monsters by means of armor. You can determine the amount of _damage reduction_ by using Table 4-1: Rating Table. On the _Rating Table_ , look at the column where the key number equals your character's _defense power_ . For example, if your defense power is 7, you would look at key number column 7 with on the _Rating Table_ . 

**Table 4-3: Rating Table, Key Number Column 7** 

7 ** 0 1 1 2 3 4 4 5 5 6 

Roll 2D and follow the row next to the result. Then, look for the number under the appropriate column. This process is specifically called a **defense roll** . 

## **Example:** 

Let’s find out how much damage Ducard II is able to prevent with his armor after being attacked by the goblin. Since Ducard II has a defense power of _7_ , we’ll use key number column 7. We roll 2D, and the result is _3_ . The number on row 3 under key number column 7 is **0** . This is the damage that Ducard II is able to prevent with his armor. 

## 【 **Failure!** 】 

When making a defense roll, if your roll is double ones, that means that you’ve been hit _extremely_ hard. Maybe the monster's attack hit a gap in your character’s armor, or one of their vital points. In this case, your character _cannot_ reduce the monster's damage (strike points) at all. 

## 【 **Criticals?** 】 

When making a defense roll, criticals do _not_ occur like they do with a strike roll. No matter how high the roll, _only_ the amount of _damage reduction_ indicated by that roll is used, _nothing_ is added to it. 

## **Example:** 

Suppose Ducard II’s defense roll came up 12 (double sixes!).  The number on row 12 under key number column 7 is **6** . Unlike a strike roll, a defense roll is made only once. You _cannot_ roll the dice again to increase this number further. 

## **4.6.4** 

## **Damage Reduction** 

Characters can also reduce damage using their _adventurer level_ . The result of your defense roll plus this **damage reduction** equals the _final_ amount of damage your character can reduce. 

However, if the result of your defense roll is _double ones_ , your character’s damage reduction is _meaningless_ . No matter how high your character's damage reduction (adventurer level), that damage _cannot_ be reduced at all. 

## **4.6.5** 

## **Final Damage** 

The final damage your character suffers from a monster equals the monster's _strike points_ minus the result of your _defense roll_ plus your character's _damage reduction_ . 

**Final damage** = monster's strike points - (defense roll result + damage reduction) 

## **Example:** 

If the result of Ducard II's defense roll is _0_ (roll 3) or _6_ (roll 12), respectively, the final damage he will suffer is calculated to be: 

7 (goblin's strike points) – {0 (defense roll) +2 (damage reduction)} = 5 

7 (goblin's strike points) – {6 (defense roll) +2 (damage reduction)} = -1 

If the defense roll came up _double ones_ , no such calculation would be made, and the goblin's **7** strike points would be the damage. 

If final damage is _0 or negative_ , that means you took _no_ damage at all. The monster's attack was completely blocked by your armor. 

47