# 4.7 Attacks From Characters Against Characters

## **4.7** 

## **Attacks From Characters Against Characters** 

While infighting between player characters is something you should avoid at all costs, fights against _nonplayer characters_ are common. Sometimes, especially when the mastermind behind an incident is a dark priest, you'll have to fight against someone whose data was created for a character. 

In a fight between these characters, proceed as follows: 

## **4.7.1** 

## **Hit Checks** 

To make a hit check, both sides must roll the dice (2D). The attacker adds their roll to their _attack power_ , and the defender adds their roll to their _evasion speed_ . 

**attacker's final score** = attack power + 2D 

**defender's final score** = evasion speed + 2D 

If the attacker's final score exceeds that of the defender, the attack _hits_ . If there is a tie or the defender's is greater, the attack _fails_ . 

attacker's attack power + 2D > defender's evasion speed +2D → **attack hits** 

attacker's attack power + 2D ≤ defender's evasion speed +2D → **attack fails** 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II suddenly found himself in a dispute with another adventurer, Bucky. Ducard II has higher agility, so he attacks first. Ducard II 's attack power is _4_ , while Bucky's evasion speed is _5_ . 

Ducard II rolls a _7_ , and Bucky rolls a 

In combat between characters, a tie is considered an attack failure. Ducard II 's attack was narrowly dodged. 

## **Double Sixes and Double Ones** 

If a roll comes up _double sixes_ or _double ones_ during combat between characters, the situation is resolved as follows: 

If the attacker's roll is _double ones_ , the attack _fails_ without question. The defender doesn’t even have to roll the dice. 

If the attacker's roll is _double sixes_ , it’s basically an automatic hit. However, if the defender's roll is _also_ double sixes, the attack _fails_ . 

If the defender's roll is _double ones_ , it’s basically an automatic hit. However, if the attacker's roll is _also_ double ones, the attack _fails_ . 

If the defender's roll is _double sixes_ , the attack will _always_ fail. It doesn’t matter even if the attacker rolls double sixes. 

Please refer to Table 4-4: Attack Checks. 

## **4.7.2** 

## **Damage Checks** 

If your attack hits, you must then determine damage. This procedure is exactly the _same_ for characters as it was during combat with monsters. 

The attacker must make a strike roll to determine their base damage, then add their bonus damage. 

The defender must make a defense roll, then add their damage reduction to the result to determine how much damage they reduced. 

The difference is the damage dealt to the defender. 

## **Example:** 

Let's go back to the fight between Ducard II and Bucky. Bucky dodges Ducard II's attack, then counterattacks. As a result of his hit check, it's a hit. 

Bucky then determines the damage he deals. Bucky is wielding a battle-ax (required strength 15) with both hands, so he has a strike power of _20_ . The result of his strike roll is _11_ (base damage _9_ ). That's a _critical_ . His following 2D roll is _9_ (base damage _7_ ). His bonus damage is _5_ (fighter skill level 3, strength bonus +2), which brings the total amount of damage to 9+7+5= **21** . 

Ducard II now determines how much damage his armor prevents. His defense roll result is _7_ , and his armor's defense power is 7, so the damage that’ll be reduced by his armor is _3_ . After adding his damage reduction of _2_ , 3+2= **5 points** is the final amount of damage Ducard II is able to reduce. 

As a result, the damage that Ducard II suffers is 21-5= **16 points** . 

**Table 4-4: Attack Checks** 

|||Defender's Roll|Defender's Roll|Defender's Roll|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|||Double<br>Ones|<br>3～11|Double<br>Sixes|
|Attacker’s<br>Roll|Double<br>Ones<br>Attack<br>Failure<br>Attack<br>Failure|||Attack<br>Failure|
||||<br>Compare||
|||Attack||Attack|
||<br>3～11||||
|||||Failure|
||||<br>Scores||
||||||
||Double<br>Sixes<br>Attack<br>Success<br>Attack<br>Success||<br>Attack|Attack<br>Failure|



_6_ . 

Ducard II’s final score is 4+7= **11** , while Bucky’s final score is 5+6= **11** . It's a tie. 

48

**==> picture [516 x 632] intentionally omitted <==**

49