# 4.9 Unconscious and Death Checks

## **Applying Damage** 

## **4.8** 

If you suffer damage and your life force (points) is reduced, then suffer more damage, your life force (points) will be further reduced from there. 

Damage reduces a character's life force (or a monster's life points). This reduction is temporary and can be recovered naturally or by magic. 

After damage is applied, a character (monster) can still act if they have at least _1_ life force (point) remaining. 

## **Unconscious and Death Checks** 

## **4.9** 

If, as a result of damage (accumulated damage), a character's (monster's) life force (points) becomes _0 or negative_ , that character (monster) will fall **unconscious** . It is no longer possible for them to act. Also, that character (monster) is now in danger of _dying_ . 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II, with a life force of _-4_ , must make a **death check** . His life force resistance is _5_ (adventurer level 2, life force bonus +3). Since Ducard II has a life force of _-4_ , that will also be the penalty. His result after rolling 2D is _7_ . 

5 (life force resistance) + 7 (roll) - 4 (penalty) = **8** , which is greater or equal than 7. Ducard II survives. If the result of this death check had been 6 or lower, Ducard II would have met an _untimely end_ . 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II, with 2 points of life force left, was hit by Bucky's ax again in the next round, suffering 6 points of damage. As a result, Ducard II now has a life force of **-4** . Ducard II _faints and collapses_ . 

## **4.9.2 Death Checks Every Hour** 

## **4.9.1** 

## **Adventurer Death Checks** 

Characters with 0 or negative life force remain unconscious, even if they successfully survived a death check. If they’re given treatment by magic, etc. and have their life force increased by up to at least 1 (positive) point, they will regain consciousness, but if they’re left unconscious, they may die. 

Any adventurer who falls to _0 or negative_ life force is now at risk of _dying_ . You must roll the dice to determine if your character survives. 

This check is made using a _life force resistance roll_ . The baseline score is _life force resistance (adventurer level + life force bonus)_ and the target score is _7_ . If the character's life force is _negative_ , the negative amount will be used as a _penalty_ . 

Characters with 0 or negative life force must make a death check every _hour_ . The target score is still _7_ , and if their life force is still _negative_ , it’s still a _penalty_ . 

life force resistance + 2D - (damage applied beyond life force) ≥ 7 → **survival** 

If the result is _double sixes_ (automatic success), the character will regain consciousness on their own. At this time, their life force becomes _1_ point. 

life force resistance + 2D - (damage applied beyond life force) < 7 → **death** 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II has 18 life force. Ducard II is hit by Bucky's attack and suffers 16 points of damage, reducing his life force to 2 points. It's still possible for him to act. 

but remains unconscious. In _one hour_ , they must make another death check. 

If the result is failure, the character will die. 

## **4.9.3** 

## **Monster Death Check** 

Monsters with 0 or negative life points must also make a check to see if they live or die. Do not roll the dice at this time. A score called the monster’s **life point resistance** is used instead. Subtract the amount of negative life points, if any, from life point resistance, and if the result is _7 or greater_ , the monster is _alive_ . If the result is _6 or lower_ , the monster is _dead_ . 

## **Example:** 

A goblin, Scarnose, was hit by an adventurer's sword and fell down with _-6_ life points. A goblin's life point resistance score is _10_ . 10-6= **4** , which is _less than 7_ . Scarnose draws his last breath. 

A monster's first death check determines whether or not it survives. If it's alive after a death check, it recovers 1 life point every _hour_ , and will regain consciousness when it reaches (positive) _1_ life point. 

If the result is any success _other_ than double sixes, the character is alive 

50