# 4.10 Excellent Weapons and Armor

## **4.9.4 Mercy** 

If a character does not want to kill their opponent, they can declare **mercy** . However, to do so, their weapon _must_ be a _dull weapon_ (a bludgeoning weapon). On Table 1-8: Weapons, _maces_ , _clubs_ , and _staves_ are classified as dull weapons. However, even if an item is classified as one of these, if you _throw_ it, you _cannot_ declare mercy. You can also declare 

mercy when using a _barehanded_ attack. You must declare mercy _before_ you make a hit check for your attack. It _cannot_ be done _after_ a hit or after damage check. 

A character who falls down with 0 or negative life force due to an attack that was declared to be _mercy_ , will _only_ fail their _death check_ if _double ones_ are rolled. On any other roll, the character remains _alive_ . 

If left untreated, they must make another death check after _1 hour_ , and 

again, will _only_ die on double ones. If successful, then even if it’s not double sixes, they will regain consciousness with 1 point of life force. If they fail, then unless they roll double ones, they will continue to remain unconscious. 

Whenever an adventurer declares that their attack on a monster is a mercy, that monster will _always_ remain alive. If left alone, it will _always_ regain consciousness. 

## **4.10** 

## **Excellent Weapons and Armor** 

A variety of weapons and armor can be found in Forcelia. Some are of high quality made by master craftsmen, some have magical powers, and others are made of unusual materials such as silver or mithril silver. 

When a character obtains and uses these weapons and armor, their various scores are modified as follows. 

## **4.10.1** 

## **High-Quality Weapons and Armor** 

There are people in the world who are called master craftsmen, and they sometimes create weapons and armor that are better than normal. These **highquality** weapons and armor are available to adventurers, if they seek them out. 

High-quality weapons and armor are easier to handle, and are made with lower required strength than usual. For example, a broadsword that originally had a required strength 16 could be made with required strength _15_ . As a result, this broadsword can be wielded by someone with 15 strength, but _still_ has a strike power of 16. 

It is important to note that such weapons and armor cannot exceed the limits of the weapon or armor itself. For example, if you want a high-quality broadsword, its required strength (size) is naturally limited to _8-16_ . Since there is 

no such broadsword with a natural required strength of 17, that means there is _no such thing_ as a broadsword with _required strength 16_ and _strike power 17_ . 

In addition, no matter how high quality it is, _nothing_ can affect its attack power or evasion speed. It’ll also have no effect on monsters that can only be wounded by magic or magical weapons (such as spirits, beastmen, etc.). 

Also, even if you search all over Alecrast, you will usually only find _one_ with a required strength up to _5 lower than usual_ . You will _not_ see any with a required strength that’s _6 lower than usual_ . 

So long as required strength _is_ up to 5 lower than usual, a character _can_ purchase one at a store. However, if you want one of higher quality, you _must_ go to a larger town. For reference, a guideline is printed here (Table 4-5: Guideline for Obtaining High-Quality Weapons and Armor). 

These high-quality weapons and armor can be expensive. Their price increases by _20%_ for every _1_ required strength lower than usual. _2_ lower will be _40%_ more expensive, _3_ lower will be _60%_ more expensive, _4_ lower will be _80%_ more expensive, and _5_ lower will be _twice_ the original price. 

**Table 4-5: Guideline for Obtaining High-Quality Weapons and Armor** 

5 less Required Strength Royal city level in a large country 4 less Required Strength Large city in a large country, royal city level in a small country 3 less Required Strength Reasonable city 2 less Required Strength Town of about 1000 people 1 less Required Strength All but the most remote village 

51

## **4.10.2 Silver Weapons and Armor** 

**Silver** is a special metal, imbued with magical powers. It is also one of only two types of metal that’s known to exist in the _spirit world_ . 

Even silver weapons and armor have no differences in their strike power, defense power, attack power, or evasion speed at all. 

However, **silver weapons** , due to their magic power, can deal damage to monsters that can _only_ be wounded by magic or magical weapons. 

Also, shamans are not normally able to wear metal armor (as metal armor prevents them from using spirit magic), but they _can_ use spirit magic while wearing it, if it’s **silver armor** . 

To buy silver weapons and armor in a store, you must be in a town about the size of the _royal city level in a small country._ Silver weapons and armor will also cost _5 times_ the original price. You can also ask for a _high-quality_ item of silver, but the price will be even _higher_ . Just think in terms of multiplication. For example, the price of a silver item with a required strength _2 times lower_ than the original would be 5 x 2 = **10 times** the price of the original. 

## **4.10.3** 

## **Magical Weapons and Armor** 

In Forcelia, there are magical weapons and armor that were once created during the age of the _magical kingdom_ (Kastuul). These magical weapons and armor are seldom found, and are usually rarely traded. 

Characters may obtain these magical weapons and armor through their adventures. The power of magical weapons and armor is represented by a +1 or +2 score. 

In Forcelia, the limit for this power is _+3_ . There are only a scant few weapons 

and armor in the world with _+3_ power, and any with _+4 or more_ have yet to be found. 

## 【 **Magical Weapons** 】 

**Magical weapons** have exceptional _attack power_ and _bonus damage_ . If you use a +1 magical weapon, you receive a _+1 bonus_ to attack power and bonus damage. If +2, those bonuses are +2, and if +3, they're +3. 

Magical weapons can deal damage to monsters that normal weapons cannot harm. 

## 【 **Magical Shields** 】 

**Magical shields** increase evasion speed. A +1 magic shield grants _+1_ evasion speed, +2 if +2. If +3, it is +3. 

## 【 **Magical Armor** 】 

**Magical armor** increases _evasion speed_ and _damage reduction_ . If you wear +1 magical armor, you gain _+1_ to evasion speed and damage reduction. +2 means +2, and +3 means +3. The damage reduction bonus from magical armor applies _only_ to _weapon_ attacks. It does _not_ reduce damage caused by magic. 

Even if it is magical, if it is _metal_ armor, a shaman cannot wear it. 

Magical weapons and armor are not usually traded, but if you are very lucky you _may_ be able to buy them if they’re +1. A guide to prices can be found in _Chapter 14: Treasure_ (see p. 240). Also, they offer basically _no_ bonus to strike power or defense power, same as required strength. 

_High-quality_ ones (made with lower required strength) seem to exist only _rarely_ . 

## **4.10.4 Mithril Silver Weapons and Armor** 

**Mithril silver** , also known as **true silver** , is produced in very few places in the world. Mithril silver is itself a mineral imbued with magic, and when processed, it gains power. However, the art of forging mithril silver was lost with the fall of the _magical kingdom_ , so it has not been handed down to the present day. 

If a character ever sees them, mithril silver weapons and armor are definitely a _legacy_ from the era of the magical kingdom. 

Mithril silver weapons and armor are always _magical_ items and, like magical weapons and armor, have a power of +1 or +2. This power affects attack power, evasion speed, bonus damage, and damage reduction. The maximum power is +3. No one has yet discovered anything with a power of +4 or higher. 

Mithril silver is also a very strong metal. For this reason, strike power and defense power are calculated by adding _+5_ to required strength. 

What makes them different from high-quality weapons and armor is that they do not _lower required strength_ but rather _increase strike power and defense power_ . Therefore, you can find a broadsword clad in mithril silver that has _required strength 16_ and _strike power 21_ . 

Mithril silver _and_ high-quality-- such as a broadsword made of mithril silver, originally with required strength _16_ but made with _5 less_ , and _also_ with _+5_ strike power because it’s mithril silver, resulting in required strength _11_ and strike power _21_ --is almost _always_ rare. Mithril silver weapons can deal damage to monsters that normal weapons cannot harm. 

Mithril silver, like regular silver, is a metal that exists in the spirit world. Therefore, a shaman can wear mithril silver armor and _still_ use spirit magic. 

Chain mail made of mithril silver does _not_ inhibit bodily movement as much as that made of steel (but splint 

52

armor, lamellar armor, and plate armor still _do_ ). Mithril silver chain mail does _not_ interfere with the thief or ranger skills. 

Mithril silver weapons and armor are _never_ , if ever, placed in shops or traded for money. 

It should be noted that, although this does not affect the numeric aspects of the game, mithril silver can be made to emit a variety of colors depending on how it’s processed, and these colors will _never_ fade. 

## **Forger of Colors** 

The time of the ancient kingdom was a time of magical civilization far more advanced than today. In those days, people knew how to process mithril silver and draw out its true power. Dwarves in particular excelled in their craft, and powerful and beautiful mithril silver items made by dwarves can still be found in Alecrast even today. 

The following is an excerpt from a travelog entitled _The Natural History of Alecrast_ , compiled by Laverna, a witch of Orphan, who toured the continent of Alecrast, and tells the episode of Somska, a dwarven craftsman said to be the best in the ancient kingdom. 

_The many mithril silver objects dating back to the ancient kingdom period are a marvel to us with their variety of colors and brilliancy. The "Crimson" breastplate is said to glow even redder than the blood of enemies, and the "White Sword" given to the commander of the kingsguard of Ramliearth does not lose its whiteness, no matter how much blood is spilled. I myself was given a beautifully crafted pen in the shape of a feather by the king at the start of my journey. Since I was told that showing off such a thing would only make me a target for thieves, I have rarely used this pen and have put it away, but when I occasionally take it out, I can see that it has not lost any of the beautiful contrast between red and yellow._ 

_However, even today, on rare occasions, mithril silver ore is found, but it is black and has no sparkle whatsoever. Mithril silver is said to acquire different colors and brilliance only_ 

**==> picture [345 x 226] intentionally omitted <==**

_when one draws out its power. Depending on the skill of the craftsman, it seems that different colors could be shown in a single item, as in my pen._ 

_your skill, you can make all the colors of the world appear in one crown," he said. Somska silently accepted the lump of mithril silver and resigned his seat._ 

_It's been said that no one could surpass the dwarves when it comes to the processing of mithril silver. Among the dwarves, the one who is said to have been the most skilled in the processing of mithril silver in the ancient kingdom, was Somska, an enchanter called the "Forger of Colors". The quality and quantity of Somska's mithril work was said to be outstanding, and countless legends have been passed down. The following anecdote is one of them._ 

_A month passed, and the enchanters came before the great lord, each carrying a crown. The crowns were all wonderfully made. Some of them shone seven colors like a rainbow from the top to the side of the head. Another was decorated like a peacock with its feathers spread out, and each feather was said to have a strangely different radiance. The great lord sighed loudly and contentedly at each of the crowns. Finally, the last one, the crown of Somska, was presented. The great lord expected a crown that would be greater than any he had ever received before._ 

_It is said that there were two great lords, both very vain. The two were strongly conscious of one another, and when one of them found a beautiful wife, the other sought out a beautiful girl, and when one threw a grand feast, the other would compete by throwing one twice as grand. One day, one of these great lords heard that the other had ordered a crown made, adorned with a hundred precious stones, and decided to have a crown made for himself as well. The great lord gathered the famous enchanters and gave them mithril silver. The great lord ordered, "Make a crown with all your skill and magic. Make it of more beautiful color and brilliance than two hundred precious gems. Whoever makes the most beautiful crown will receive any reward they desire."_ 

_But what Somska offered was a black, gleamless crown with no trace of processing. The great lord was surprised, angry, and exclaimed, "Somska, what is this?! Was this crown not to display all the colors of the world?!" It is said that Somska answered without changing the expression beneath his beard at all, "If you mix all colors together, you will only get black."_ 

_I think I saw in this anecdote the rebellious spirit of the dwarves. And, in fact, I also felt that the dwarves might have an exceptional sense of humor. But like Somska, the dwarves will not reveal that smile behind their beards._ 

_Somska was also summoned and given mithril silver. Somska was also the one that the great lord relied on the most. "Somska, you are considered the greatest of your time, and with_ 

53