# 5.1.4 How to Use Magic

## **Basic Rules of Magic** 

## **5.1** 

## **5.1 Basic Rules of Magic** 

**==> picture [355 x 114] intentionally omitted <==**

## **5.1.1** 

## **Types of Magic** 

In _Sword World_ , there is a power called **magic** that can produce various mysterious effects by chanting words called **runes** and performing certain procedures at the same time. 

Some rune masters are fluent in multiple runes. However, this also has some limitations. 

## **Example:** 

There are five types of runes in the world of _Sword World_ . This difference in runes is at the same time a difference in the type of magic. The five runes are **high ancient** , **silent spirit** , **holy prayer** , **daemon scream** , and **dragon roar** . Each has a different source of magical power and a completely different procedure (although _holy prayer_ and _daemon scream_ are essentially the same power, the only difference being the nature of the magic). 

Suppose we have an adventurer with priest skill level 1 and shaman skill level 2. This adventurer can use 1st level holy magic and 1st-2nd level spirit magic. He cannot use any ancient magic, nor any holy magic of 2nd level or higher, nor any spirit magic of 3rd level or higher. 

One, is that some races may not be able to learn some or all of the runes. These are as explained earlier under 1.2: Races (see p. 13) 

The other, is that you _cannot_ have more than _one each_ of holy, dark, and dragon roar magic at the same time. These types of magic are obtained through belief in _gods_ , _wicked gods_ , and _dragons_ , respectively. A character cannot hold more than _one_ of these beliefs at the same time. 

## **5.1.4** 

## **How to Use Magic** 

In addition to these runes, there are two others that, although weak, can still manifest magical power. They are called **common runes** and **spellsongs** , respectively. 

## **5.1.4.1 Magic Power** 

Now let's explain how to actually use magic in combat, etc. 

First, adventurers who use magic are given a score called **magic power** . 

## **5.1.3** 

## **Learning Magic** 

## **5.1.2** 

## **Rune Masters and Rune Master Skills** 

In _Sword World_ , all those who use magic utilizing runes are called **rune masters** . Rune masters are divided into five types according to the type of magic (runes) they use. Namely, 

Sorcerer uses **ancient magic** Shaman uses **spirit magic** Priest uses **holy magic** Dark priest uses **dark magic** 

and dragon priest uses **dragon roar magic** . 

Each corresponds to the skill for which it is named. Those with the _sorcerer skill_ can use _ancient magic_ and are called _sorcerers_ . 

Magic is not omnipotent. It is only possible to achieve a defined and limited set of effects by weaving certain words (in runes), called **spells** . There are several types of spells, each with different effects. Depending on the strength of their effects, spells are divided into _levels_ from _1-10_ . 1st level spells are very rudimentary, while 10th level spells are very powerful. 

However, working with higher level (i.e., more advanced) spells requires a high rune master skill. A rune master can use _all_ magic up to _their_ skill level, but _cannot_ use magic of a _higher_ level than their current skill. 

For those who have acquired multiple rune master skills, consider the level of spells you can use for each type of magic. 

**magic power** = magic skill level + intelligence bonus 

If you’ve acquired _multiple_ magic skills, consider the magic power of each _separately_ . 

## **Example:** 

An adventurer with priest skill level 1, shaman skill level 2, and 13 intelligence (+2 bonus) would have a magic power of _3_ in holy magic and a magic power of _4_ in spirit magic. 

## **Filling out the Character Sheet** 

On the Character Sheet, there is a _magic_ field. Characters with rune master skills must write their _runes_ , _skill level_ , and _magic power_ in this field. 

For the character in the above example, we’d write _holy prayer_ and _silent_ 

56

**==> picture [348 x 407] intentionally omitted <==**

_spirit_ in the _runes_ column and _1_ and _3_ (holy prayer), and _2_ and 4 (silent spirit) in the _level_ and _magic power_ columns to the right of them, respectively. 

## **Procedure for Casting 5.1.4.3 Non-resistible Magic** 

The game procedures for using resistible and non-resistible magic are quite different. 

The procedure for an adventurer to use _non-resistible_ magic is as follows: 

## **Resisting** 

## **5.1.4.2** 

There are two kinds of magic. One is **resistible** . The other is **non-resistible** . Magic that is _resistible_ can be rendered ineffective or less effective if the target chooses to **resist** . _Non-resistible_ magic can be effective regardless of what the target does. 

Declare which magic you’re using, then roll 2D. 

That's all. If the result is anything other than double ones, the magic takes effect. If it _is_ double ones, then for some reason (the spell was inaccurate, etc.) the magic takes _no_ effect at all. 

This distinction will be specified for each spell in the spell lists that follow. 

## **Procedure When an 5.1.4.4 Adventurer Casts Resistible Magic on a Monster** 

When attempting to cast _resistible_ magic on a monster, the caster must determine whether their opponent can resist it. You must make a success roll using _caster’s magic power_ as the baseline score and the monster’s **mental point resistance** as the target score. If _2D roll + magic power_ is greater than or equal to the monster’s resistance score, the magic will be cast with its full effect. If the resistance score is _not_ met, the magic will _not_ work or will only have a _weak_ effect. If the 2D roll comes up _double ones_ , that means there was some mistake and the magic did _not_ work. Even if the magic doesn’t normally lose its effect when resisted, in this case it is completely nullified. 

If the 2D roll comes up _double sixes_ , the magic automatically succeeds and will take its full effect, no matter how high the monster’s mental point resistance (except for when the magic _itself_ has no effect on that monster. In this case, there is no need to roll the dice, and the magic does not take effect). 

## **Example:** 

Consider an adventurer with shaman skill level 2 and a +2 intelligence bonus (magic power 4) who casts the _Fire Bolt_ spell, which shoots a flaming bullet at the opponent, on a goblin (mental point resistance 9). 

_Fire Bolt_ is _resistible_ magic, so if it’s _resisted_ by the opponent, its effect will be reduced. 

In this case, the adventurer (the player controlling them) must make a success roll. The baseline score is _4_ (magic power) and the target score is _9_ (goblin's mental point resistance). In other words, if the 2D roll is _5 or mor_ e, _Fire Bolt_ will take its full effect. 

Depending on the dice, there are 3 kinds of results: 

57

Roll of 5 or greater: _Fire Bolt_ takes its full effect. 

Roll of 3-4: _Fire Bolt_ takes an incomplete effect. 

Roll of 2 (double ones): _Fire Bolt_ does not work at all. 

magic power + 2D ≥ monster's mental point resistance → **magic takes full effect** 

magic power + 2D < monster's mental point resistance → **magic takes an incomplete effect (some take no effect at all)** 

When the 2D roll is _double sixes_ , the magic will _automatically_ take its _full_ effect. 

When the 2D roll is _double ones_ , the magic _unconditionally_ takes _no_ effect at all. 

## **Procedure When a 5.1.4.5 Monster Casts Resistible Magic on an Adventurer** 

When a monster casts magic, the procedure is different from when an adventurer casts magic. 

First, in the case of _non-resistible_ magic, a monster can _never_ fail. There is no need to roll the dice, as the magic will _definitely_ take its effect. In the case of _resistible_ magic, the issue is resolved from the perspective of whether the adventurer is able to resist the magic cast by the monster. This is determined by a success roll using the character's _mental power resistance_ , that is, a _mental power resistance roll_ . The target score is a score called the monster’s **magic intensity** . 

If the adventurer's final score ( _mental power resistance + 2D_ ) is equal to or greater than the monster's _magic intensity_ , the monster's magic will only take an incomplete effect (some magic will take no effect at all). If the adventurer's final score is _less_ than the monster's magic intensity, they will receive the _full_ effect of the magic. 

Also, since this is considered a success roll, it’ll be an _automatic failure_ if the 2D roll is _double ones_ . No matter how high the adventurer's mental power 

**==> picture [344 x 429] intentionally omitted <==**

resistance or how low the monster's magic intensity, the magic will take its _full_ effect. Conversely, _double sixes_ is an _automatic success_ , so in this case, regardless of the adventurer's mental power resistance or the monster's magic intensity, that’s a _successful resist_ * and the magic will only take an incomplete effect. 

Ducard II, Ducard II must make a mental power resistance roll (baseline score 4, target score 13). 

Roll is 9 or higher: successful resist. _Fire Bolt_ takes an incomplete effect. 

Roll is 8 or less: failed resist. _Fire Bolt_ takes its full effect. 

mental power resistance + 2D ≥ monster's magic intensity → **magic takes an incomplete effect (some take no effect at all)** 

*In this way, when making a _resistible_ magic check, you can also call it a _successful resist_ or _failed resist_ from the perspective of the one being affected by the magic. 

mental power resistance + 2D < monster's magic intensity → **magic takes full effect** 

## **Example:** 

When the 2D roll is _double sixes_ , the resist _automatically succeeds_ 

Ducard II (mental power resistance 4) is attacked by a dark elf during an adventure. Dark elves have the ability to use spirit magic, with a magic intensity of 13. If the dark elf casts a _Fire Bolt_ on 

When the 2D roll is _double ones_ , the resist _automatically fails_ 

58

## **Procedure When an 5.1.4.6 Adventurer Casts Resistible Magic on an Adventurer** 

Just like player characters, even those whose data was created for a character may appear as an enemy. If such an enemy casts magic on an adventurer, or if an adventurer casts magic on such an enemy, both sides must roll dice to resolve the situation, just as in weapon combat between adventurers. 

In other words, you compare the _magic power + 2D_ score of the one casting the magic with the _mental power resistance + 2D_ score of the one on whom the magic is being cast. If the score of the one casting the magic is greater, the magic will take _full_ effect, but if there is a tie or if the score of the one on whom the magic is being cast is greater, the magic is _resisted_ and will only take an _incomplete_ effect. 

The resolution of _double ones_ and _double sixes_ is also the same as weapon combat. In other words, if the _resisting side_ rolls double sixes, the resist is an _unconditional success_ , otherwise, if _the side casting the magic_ rolls double sixes, the resist is a _failure_ . 

When the one casting the magic rolls _double ones_ , the magic takes _no_ effect at all. 

When the resisting side rolls _double ones_ , the resist _fails_ , unless the side casting the magic _also_ rolls double ones. 

## **Handling Resistible Magic 5.1.4.7 and Multiple Targets** 

Some magic impacts a certain area and takes effect on all targets within that area. 

This kind of magic can have multiple targets, and each target must make their own check to resist. 

## **When an Adventurer Casts** 

## **Magic on Monsters** 

The player must roll the dice and make a check for each monster. 

**==> picture [343 x 430] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Example:** 

1st goblin: 5 (magic power) + 6 (roll) = 11 ≥ 9 (mental point resistance), full effect. 

Suppose an adventurer with sorcerer skill level 3 and a +2 intelligence bonus (magic power 5) casts the spell _Lightning_ . _Lightning_ is a spell that shoots a bolt of lightning, dealing damage to everything in its path. If there are multiple targets in the path of the lightning bolt, you must make a check for each one’s attempt to resist. 

2nd goblin: 5 (magic power) + 3 (roll) = 8 < 9 (mental point resistance), incomplete effect. 

3rd goblin: The result is double ones, so no effect 

Goblin lord: 5 (magic power) + 6 (roll) = 11 < 12 (mental point resistance), incomplete effect. 

Suppose there are three goblins (each with a mental point resistance of 9) and one goblin lord (mental  point resistance 12) in this space. The player rolls the dice four times and for each one must determine whether the magic breaks through the resist and takes its full effect. 

When rolling the dice, you must clearly declare which target the dice are meant for before you actually roll. 

If the rolls against the three goblins were _6_ , _3_ , and _2_ (double ones!), and the roll against the goblin lord was _6_ , then the result would look like this: 

59