# 5.1.6 Recovering Mental Power

## **When a Monster Casts Magic on Adventurers** 

Each player must make a resistance roll using _monster's magic intensity_ as the target score. 

## **Example:** 

A centaur and three adventurers get into a fight. This centaur has the ability to use ancient magic and unleashes _Lightning_ . The game master declares that its magic intensity is _13_ . 

Each of the three adventurers (the players in control) roll 2D to check if they resist, using _their mental power resistance_ as the baseline score, and _13 (magic intensity)_ as the target score. 

## **When an Adventurer Casts Magic on Adventurers** 

The following procedure is used to make a check when data created for a character casts magic on adventurers, and vice versa. 

First, the side casting the magic rolls 2D. The final score (magic power + 2D) must then be determined this one time only. Each resisting side must then make a mental power resistance roll, using that determined final score as the target score. 

## **Example:** 

The evil sorcerer Gorman (magic power 5) unleashes _Lightning_ on the three adventurers. First, Gorman rolls 2D and adds his own magic power. If we assume his 2D roll is _8_ , each of the three adventurers must make a mental power resistance roll, with a target score of 5 (magic power) + 8 (roll) = _13_ . Suppose that the baseline score of all three of their mental power resistance rolls is _4_ . If their rolls are each _2_ (double ones!), _6_ , and _9_ , then only the _last_ one is able to resist the _Lightning_ . 

Handling double ones and double sixes is no different from when there’s only one target. If the side casting the magic rolls double ones, the magic has _no_ effect on _any_ targets. If the side casting the magic rolls double sixes, _no_ 

_one_ can resist, except for those who _also_ roll double sixes. 

## **When an Adventurer Casts Magic on a Mix of** 

## **Adventurers and Monsters** 

Sometimes enemies written in the same data format as a character may also be accompanied by monsters. For example, a sorcerer who leads undead monsters to attack villages. Casting magic on such a group is handled the same way as when an adventurer casts magic on (a group of) adventurers, as described above. At this time, the monsters must _also_ roll the dice to make resist checks. Please use the optional rules under _17.1: Changes to Magic Procedure_ (see p. 273). 

## **If the Target Does 5.1.4.8 Not Resist** 

Some magic can also have secondary effects. For example, the spirit magic _Fanaticism_ increases attack power, but conversely _decreases_ evasion speed. With such magic, the one on whom it is cast can _choose_ whether or not to resist. 

If the one on whom the magic is being cast chooses _not_ to resist the magic, it will _definitely_ take effect so long as the one casting the magic does _not_ roll double ones. You’re also allowed to choose to _not resist_ magic like _Fire Bolt_ , which will definitely result in a loss if it's cast on you....... but that probably won't benefit you in any way. 

## **5.1.5** 

## **Consuming Mental Power** 

Adventurers cannot use magic endlessly. When using magic, an adventurer must temporarily _reduce_ their mental power. 

Each magic has a score called **base mental power cost** . This base mental power cost, divided by the corresponding rune master skill level 

(rounded up), equals the actual mental power consumed by the character. 

## **Example:** 

A character with shaman skill level 2 uses the _Fire Bolt_ spell. The base mental power cost for _Fire Bolt_ is _5_ . The character must consume 5 ÷ 2 = 2.5, rounding up to _3_ points of mental power. 

A character can reduce their mental power to 0, but they _cannot_ make it negative. For example, a character with 5 points of mental power remaining _can_ use magic that costs 5 points of mental power, but _cannot_ use magic that costs _6 or more_ points of mental power. 

If a character’s mental power reaches _0_ , they will _lose consciousness_ . The character cannot regain consciousness unless they recover their mental power to _1 point or more_ in some way. 

Even if magic _fails_ , such as by rolling double ones or being resisted by the opponent, a character must _still_ consume their mental power, same as if they had actually used the magic. 

## **5.1.6** 

## **Recovering Mental Power** 

Mental power reduced due to using magic, etc. can be recovered via the following methods. 

## 《 **Magical Recovery** 》 

There's magic and magical items that can recover a character's mental power, such as the holy magic _Transfer Mental Power_ . The amount recovered is explained under each magic and item. 

## 《 **Recovery via Sleep** 》 

If a character sleeps for at least 6 hours in a row, they will fully recover their mental power upon awakening. However, this method of recovery can only be done _once_ a day. If you awaken 

60