# 5.1.7 Magic Expansion

within 24 hours of your previous awakening (when your mental power was last recovered), your mental power will _not_ be recovered. 

## **5.1.7** 

## **Magic Expansion** 

You can increase the effectiveness and certainty of magic by consuming extra mental power. This is called **magic expansion** . 

Magic expansion is done by doubling or tripling...... the _amount_ of mental power consumed. At this time, you do _not_ double or triple the base mental power cost....... Instead, you divide the mental power by your _skill level, rounded up_ , or in other words, the mental power you would consume when _not_ expanding is doubled, tripled...... etc. 

## **Example:** 

Suppose a sorcerer with sorcerer skill level 2 doubles the range of his _Energy Bolt_ spell and casts it on two enemies. The base mental power cost of _Energy Bolt_ is _5_ . For this reason, the mental power consumed _without_ expansion is 5 ÷ 2, rounded up to _3_ . Therefore, for a _doubled_ expansion, the amount of mental power consumed would be 3 x 2 = **6** . You would _not_ calculate (5 x 2) ÷ 2 = 5. 

## **5.1.7.1 Expansion Types** 

Magic expansion includes the following types. 

## 《 **Targets Expansion** 》 

If you expand a spell that affects one enemy (or ally), it can instead affect multiple at the same time. 

If it's _two_ or _three_ targets...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... 

In this case, you must roll the dice separately for each target to determine if they resist the magic, and other effects such as damage must also be determined separately. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **targets** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Area Expansion** 》 

If you expand a spell that affects a specific area, it can affect a larger area than originally intended. 

If the area is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... You can also expand an area by a _fraction_ (x1.5, x8/3, etc.), in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. So for expansions such as _x 1.5_ and _x 8/3_ , the cost would be _double_ and _triple_ , respectively. 

Since it’s the area that gets expanded, the radius of a circle, a side of a square, etc., can only be increased by the _square root_ of the expansion rate. Please see Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **area** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Volume Expansion** 》 

Some spells that affect a space or object can have their volume expanded. If the volume is expanded by _two_ or _three_ times...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... Rounding should be handled the same way you would for area expansion. 

Since it’s the volume that gets expanded, the radius of a sphere, a side of a cube, etc., can only be increased by the _cube root_ of the expansion rate. Please see Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **target volume** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

**Table 5-1: Area and Size Expansion** 

|Expansion<br>Rate|Area Expansion<br>Length|Volume Expansion<br>Length|
|---|---|---|
|x 2|1.4|1.3|
|x 3|1.7|1.4|
|x 4|2|1.6|
|x 5|2.2|1.7|
|x 6|2.4|1.8|
|x 7|2.6|1.9|
|x 8|2.8|2.0|
|x 9|3.0|2.1|
|x 10|3.2|2.2|



Note: On the table, _expansion rate_ is the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

When you cast a spell by consuming that multiplied amount of mental power, multiply the number in _area expansion length_ or _volume expansion length_ by the number (radius, side) that represents the spell’s _area of effect_ , and the result will be the spell’s _area_ . For spells cast on a flat surface, use the number in the _area expansion length_ column, and for spells cast into space, use the number in the _volume expansion length_ column. For example, when you cast the ancient magic _Light_ , whose area is _A space with a 10 meter radius_ , by consuming _double_ the mental power, the resulting area will be a spherical space with a radius of _10 x 1.3 =_ _**13 meters**_ . 

## 《 **Duration Expansion** 》 

For spells whose effects last a certain amount of time, you can expand that duration. If the duration is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ ....... You can also increase it by a fraction, such as x1.5, in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **duration** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Distance Expansion** 》 

Magic basically only works up to a certain distance. However, there are spells that can extend their reach. If reach distance is _doubled_ or _tripled_ ...... the mental power consumed will also be _doubled_ or _tripled_ .......  You can also increase it by a fraction, such as x1.5, in which case the fraction is _rounded up_ when determining the multiplier for mental power consumed. 

61