# 5.1.8 Magic Contraction

For spells that can perform this expansion, **distance** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Damage Expansion** 》 

For spells that deal damage, expansion can increase the certainty of that damage. If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... you can make a damage check (strike roll) _twice_ or _three times_ . The damage you will deal is equal to the _greatest_ of all the strike rolls you made in this way ( _not_ the total). 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **damage certainty** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

## 《 **Final Score Increase** 》 

There's some magic whose effects are negated or reduced if they're resisted by the target, but will also let you _increase_ the magic's final score (resist target score) in order to prevent this. This increase in final score may also take effect if a nullifying spell is cast later. 

If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... you can add a _+1_ or _+2_ bonus to your final score. 

For spells that can perform this expansion, **final score** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details. 

This expansion requires a deep proficiency in magic. Therefore, it cannot be done infinitely. Final score can only be increased up to a maximum of _caster's rune master skill level ÷ 2 (rounded up)_ . That’s up to _+1 (double)_ for 1st~2nd level, _+2 (triple)_ for 3rd~4th level, and _+5 (sextuple)_ for 9th~10th level. 

## 《 **Effect Expansion** 》 

Some expansions don’t fall into any of the above types. For spells that can perform these special expansions, **effect** is written in the _expansion_ section of the magic details, and an explanation is given under each spell. 

## **5.1.7.2 Combined Expansion** 

Some magic allows for multiple expansion types. In these cases, you can perform multiple expansions at the same time. However, at this time, the amount of mental power consumed will become extremely large. By multiplying the rates determined for each expansion, you can determine the total multiplied rate of mental power consumed. 

## **Example:** 

Suppose a sorcerer casts an _Energy Bolt_ on three enemies ( _x 3_ expansion) with a +1 to his final score ( _x 2_ expansion) and he makes 4 damage checks for each ( _x 4_ expansion). In this case, the multiplied rate of mental power consumed is 3 x 2 x 4 = **24!** 

## **5.1.8** 

## **Magic Contraction** 

Magic can also be **contracted** as opposed to expanded. However, this does _not_ reduce the amount of mental power consumed. 

## **5.1.8.1 Contraction Types** 

Magic contractions include the following: 

## 《 **Area Contraction** 》 

You can make the area of effect narrower than originally intended. The shape (usually a circle) _cannot_ be changed. You also cannot cast it in such a way that it hits the enemy directly in the eyes. 

## 《 **Volume Contraction** 》 

Similar to area contraction, you can also reduce the volume of the targeted object or space. Again, the shape cannot be changed, and you cannot directly aim it at the enemy's eyes. 

## 《 **Duration Contraction** 》 

Magic with a duration can be optionally shortened. However, you _cannot_ set a time that causes the effect to wear off in the middle of a round. You may _only_ set it to wear off at the _end_ of a round. You must also decide how long you want the magic to last _before_ you cast it. Magic that’s already been cast cannot be canceled at will. 

## 《 **Magic Power Decrease** 》 

Magic power can be optionally reduced. This will reduce the final score and, if it's damage magic, _also_ reduce bonus damage (it’s not possible to _only_ reduce the final score or _only_ reduce bonus damage). You must declare how many points you’ll reduce _before_ you roll the dice. If used on multiple targets, you must reduce it by the same amount for _all_ of them. Also, if the side casting the magic rolls double sixes, the resisting side will _also_ need double sixes, no matter _how much_ magic power was declared to be decreased (if it's a monster, it _cannot_ resist). 

## 《 **Effect Contraction** 》 

All magic that can expand their effects can also contract their effects. 

## **Combined Expansion 5.1.8.2 and Contraction** 

Although it's not often done, it's possible to perform magic expansion _and_ contraction at the same time. For example, you could _extend_ the area of effect while _reducing_ magic power. The mental power required at this time is decided by _expansion_ . It _cannot_ be reduced by contraction. For example, if you _double_ the area _and_ reduce magic power by _-4_ , the mental power consumed will still be _double_ . 

62