# 5.1.9 Magic Types

## **5.1.9** 

## **Magic Types** 

There’s several kinds of magic that share the same characteristics. 

These characteristics are presented here as **magic types** . 

## 《 **Damage** 》 

A spell that deals damage to the target's life force or mental power. Spells of the damage type always have a clearly defined _strike power_ . If you manage to break through the target's resist, use the spell's strike power to determine damage by making a _strike roll_ using the Rating Table, same as if you had hit with a weapon in weapon combat. The key number is, of course, the indicated _strike power_ . If you roll 10 or greater during the strike roll, a _critical_ will occur and deal even more damage, same as in weapon combat. Conversely, If you roll double ones, it does _not_ deal any damage at all. 

Most magic of the **damage** type can still deal damage even if it's resisted by the target, only with a reduced effect. In this case, you must make the strike roll after _subtracting 10_ from strike power. Also, at this time, no matter how high you roll during your strike roll, a _critical_ will _not_ occur. 

In either case, the caster's magic power can be added as bonus damage to the result of the strike roll. Also, the target's adventurer level (or the monster's monster level) is subtracted from the damage. However, there’s an _exception_ if you roll _double ones_ during your strike roll. In this case, no matter how much magic power your character (monster) has, they _cannot_ deal damage to the target at all. 

Also, even magic of the _damage_ type may in rare cases take no effect if resisted. At this time, if the target successfully resists, you _cannot_ make a strike roll. 

## 《 **Target Score** 》 

Some magic can nullify the effects of other magic. For example, the ancient magic _Dispel Magic_ nullifies the effects of most magic. 

Most magic is automatically nullified if a nullifying spell is used, but there are some that are not. This is magic that has a _target score_ . 

When casting any magic, no matter what kind of magic it is, you must roll 2D to check whether an automatic failure (double ones) will occur or not. If you're trying to nullify magic that has a _target score_ with another spell, you must use that other spell's 2D roll to determine your final score. This final score equals _magic power + 2D roll_ (similar to a final score for other success rolls). 

If this final score is greater than or equal to the _target score_ originally set for that first magic that was cast, then that first magic can be nullified. 

This _target score_ equals the final score of the first magic that was cast (in other words, the magic you're about to nullify). Therefore, when an adventurer uses magic that has a _target score_ , that player should note down that score and remember it. However, if you feel this is cumbersome, or if you forget to make a note, then when it becomes necessary (nullifying magic has been used), you can roll 2D on the spot to determine a final score = _target score_ . 

When you use magic that nullifies other magic, if your roll is _double sixes_ , the magic will _automatically_ be nullified, no matter what the _target score_ is. 

Conversely, if the dice roll double sixes when determining the _target score_ (the success score of the first magic), you _must_ roll another double sixes in order to nullify that magic. 

## 《 **Counters (Negates)** 》 

When magic is cast against other magic, their effects may completely cancel each other out. For example, there are two kinds of ancient magic, _Decrease Weight_ (which makes an object lighter) 

and _Increase Weight_ (which makes an object heavier), but when both of these are cast on the same object at the same time, they will cancel each other out and disappear without taking effect. 

Such magic, that is, magic that negates the effect of other magic, but at the same time is negated by that other magic without taking its own effect, is called **counters (negates):** type. 

When casting _counters (negates):_ magic to cancel the effect of certain magic, if the magic that was cast prior has a _target score_ , then according to the definition of _magic with a target score_ , the magic that's cast after _cannot_ cancel the prior magic unless its final score is greater than or equal to the determined _target score_ . 

## 《 **Counters (Overpowers)** 》 

When certain magic is cast against other magic, it can cancel the effect of the prior magic but still take its own effect afterwards. This is magic of the **counters (overpowers):** type. 

For example, the ancient magic _Darkness_ can nullify the effects of the spirit magic _Will-O-Wisp_ and still close the surrounding area in darkness, which means _Darkness_ itself is more effective. 

However, this is often not automatic. One, is when the target _resists_ . In the case of magic that does not take effect if resisted, if the target _does_ resist it, the magic will _not_ take its effect, and the effect of the _prior_ magic will continue. 

The other, is when the prior magic has a _target score_ . In this case, according to the definition of _magic with a target score_ , the magic cast after will _not_ take effect unless its final score is greater than or equal to the determined _target score_ . 

If the magic cast prior has a _target score_ and the magic cast after is _resistible_ , please follow the procedure below to make a check. 

① First, confirm the _target score (= final score)_ of the magic cast prior (if you forgot, determine it now). 

63

② Next, the one casting the magic must roll 2D to find their final score (by adding their magic power). 

③ Compare _target score in_ ① with _final score in_ ②. If the final score does not reach the target score, the magic will _not_ be cast. This ends here. 

④ If _final score in_ ② is greater than or equal to _target score in_ ①, the target may attempt to _resist_ . The _resist target score_ equals the _final score in_ ②. 

⑤ If the target _successfully resisted_ in ④, the new magic cast will _not_ take effect. The effect of the _prior_ magic will continue. If the target _failed to resist_ , the new magic cast _will_ take effect and the effect of the prior magic will be _negated_ . 

_Counters (overpowers):_ magic does not mean that certain magic is definitely stronger than other magic. It's possible for magic A to _counter (overpower)_ magic B, and at the same time for magic B to _counter (overpower)_ magic A. 

Also, all magic _counters (overpowers)_ itself. Therefore, if certain magic takes effect, and you cast that same magic on the same target _multiple_ times, the effect will _not_ be cumulative. 

## 《 **Mind** 》 

This is magic that affects the target's mental state. This kind of magic can only take effect on one target at a time. If magic of the **mind** type is cast on a target, and other magic also of the _mind_ type is cast on that target, the _new_ magic will take effect, and the prior magic will be _nullified_ . 

In other words, all _mind_ magic _counters (overpowers)_ other _mind_ magic. Note that many are _resistible_ magic, and some have _target scores_ . 

## 《 **Physical Ability** 》 

This is magic that affects the target’s physical abilities (strength, etc.). Magic of this type can _only_ take effect on _humans_ , _fae_ , and _youma_ . 

Also, with magic of the **physical ability** type, two or more cannot affect 

the same target at the same time. Please resolve them as _counters (overpowers)_ magic. 

It’s possible for both _mind_ and _physical ability_ magic to each affect the same target separately. 

## 《 **Weapon Enhancement** 》 

Magic that targets a weapon and enhances it. Two or more of this kind of magic cannot affect the same weapon at the same time. Please resolve them as _counters (overpowers)_ magic. 

Weapons that have been given power by ancient magic, silver weapons, or mithril silver weapons are assumed to already have _non-removable_ (see below) **weapon enhancement** magic cast on them. Therefore, that power _cannot_ be nullified, so even if you cast new _weapon enhancement_ magic, it’ll be _useless_ . 

## 《 **Non-removable** 》 

Some magic, such as _Dispel Magic_ (ancient magic) and _Remove Curse_ (holy magic), can be used as counter magic that _removes_ other magic. However, magic of the **non-removable** type _cannot_ be removed by other magic. 

Although, the ancient magic _Perfect Cancellation_ **is** able to remove _nonremovable_ magic. Also, sometimes there is counter magic that counters _certain_ magic, which if specified, will be removed by _that_ counter magic. It's also possible to remove _non-removable magic_ by directly using the power of a god (wicked god) with the holy/dark magic _Call God_ . 

## 《 **Curse** 》 

_Dispel Magic_ (ancient magic) can be used to remove most magic, but for magic of the **curse** type, this is not possible. However, _Remove Curse_ (holy magic) **can** be used to remove it. 

## 《 **Detection** 》 

A spell that detects objects, people, magic power, etc. These can be targeted by the ancient magic _Counter Sense_ . These spells also ignore the protection of the ancient magic _Magic Protection_ . 

## 《 **Focus** 》 

Magic has a fixed _duration_ . Magic of the **focus** type is that in which the magic's effect lasts as long as the caster (the one who casts the magic) is _focused_ . While focusing, the caster cannot take the following actions: 

Use other magic 

Attack another with a weapon (or barehanded) 

Move more than 3 meters in one round 

Speak words 

Any other voluntary action 

Even while focusing, if another attacks you with a weapon, etc. you can still attempt to _evade_ it. If magic is cast on you, it's also possible to _resist_ it. 

Also, when the target is no longer within the magic's area of effect (out of reach, out of sight, etc.), the magic will _lose_ its effect, even if you continue to focus. 

If the caster suffers damage to their life force or mental power, their focus will be interrupted and the magic's effect will be _lost_ . 

If the caster wishes to voluntarily release their focus (in order to take another action), they must declare it at the _beginning_ of the round, when no one else has made their action announcements yet. If your focus is interrupted due to damage, etc. your focus will be interrupted at the timing in which the damage is dealt. 

## 《 **Illusion** 》 

A spell that deceives the five senses of the target. These spells deceive the 

64