**Table 12-1: Languages** 

|**Table 12-1: Languages**||
|---|---|
||Written<br>Characters|
|Runes<br> High ancient<br> Silent spirit<br> Holy prayer/daemon scream*<br> Dragon roar<br> High giant**<br> High centaurian**<br>Normal languages<br> Common<br> Mārdan<br> Gundar<br> Low ancient<br> Elven<br> Dwarven<br> Impish<br> Centaurian<br> Goblin<br> Giant<br> Harpy<br> Fairy<br> Merman<br> Minotaur<br> Lizardman|Yes<br>No<br>Yes<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No<br>No|

*Holy prayer and daemon scream are basically the same thing. However, there are slight differences depending on the god (wicked god) you believe in. **Now (believed to be) lost. 

## **12.1.5** 

## **Monster Language Ability** 

Some intelligent monsters have the ability to speak and read using a certain language. Of course, there are monsters with multiple language abilities. The 

table below lists the languages used by monsters. Monster details also have an entry called _Language_ . 

**[ Common ]** Soldier (knight, knight leader) 

## **[ Regional ]** 

Pooka, featherfolk, goblin (shaman, lord), marshman, dark elf (all), spriggan, satyr, harpy (deela, deela king), medusa, androscorpio, scylla, twintail cat, lamia, sphinx, fungus, jack-o-lantern, dullahan, undead knight, imitator (thing), mutant monster, normal man, bandit (all), soldier (all), dark priest warrior (all), lycanthrope (all), redcap 

## **[ Low Ancient ]** 

Twintail cat, telchines, head displacer, lamia, manticore, sphinx, buckbaird, humbaba, dragon (elder), wraith, mummy (master), vampire (undead king), homunculus (homunculus), shi, lesser daemon (all), doppelganger 

## **[ Silent Spirit ]** 

Pixie, fairy, pooka, Featherfolk, merman (mermaid shaman), gremlin, goblin (shaman), dark elf (all), brownie, undine, salamander, sandman, sylph, sprite, gnome, frau, leprechaun, dryad, the spirit of life, valkyrie, giant (fire, frost), androscorpio, scylla, twintail cat, unicorn, mandrake, alraune 

**[ Elven ]** Dark elf (all) 

**[ Dwarven ]** Not among the monsters in this book 

**[ Imp ]** Imp, gremlin, marshman 

**[ Centaurian ]** Centaur 

**[ Goblin ]** Kobold, hobgoblin, goblin (all) 

**[ Giant ]** Yeti, ogre, spriggan, troll, hecatoncheir, giant (all), cyclops 

**[ Harpy ]** Featherfolk, harpy (all) 

**[ Fairy ]** Pixie, fairy, pooka, twintail cat 

**[ Merman ]** Merman (all), telchines 

**[ Minotaur ]** Minotaur 

**[ Lizardman ]** Lizardman (all), wyrm, dragon (all) 

## **12.2** 

## **Rules for Poison, Illness and Infection** 

In _Sword World RPG_ , illness is defined as a state in which the balance of spirit power within the body is disrupted. The concept of bacterial or viral contagion does not exist. There are two types of symptoms that can appear. One is due to **poison** and the other is due to **illness** . In addition, a wound may become **infected** , which is treated as an illness. 

Poisons force an imbalance in the spirit power within the body. As long as the poison remains in the body, even if 

the symptoms disappear, the balance of spirit power will be disrupted and the symptoms will appear again. However, if the poison itself is cleared away, the spirit power within the body will naturally return to a balanced state and restore health. 

On the other hand, illness is a state where the spirit power within the body remains unbalanced and in a fixed state. Think of it as the spirits inside your body that are under the illusion that a false equilibrium is the correct one. Illness 

infection occurs when spirits transmit information about the incorrect equilibrium state to spirits in other human bodies. The unknown spirit of life heals illness by showing other spirits in the body how to achieve balance. 

In _Sword World RPG_ , the phenomenon of a wound becoming infected means that _the container was broken and deformed, causing the contents to become unbalanced_ . The logic goes that the greater the wound, the greater the risk of infection. 

159 

## **12.2.1 Poisons** 

This section explains the rules regarding poison. 

## **Poison Treatment 12.2.1.1 and Detox Methods** 

Just like in our world, in Alecrast, using poison as a weapon is an immoral act. If a player character uses poison to defeat an enemy, they are sure to be treated as a coward and looked down upon by the public. Therefore, a proud warrior does _not_ want to use poison. On the other hand, assassins, evil rune masters, dark priests, etc. _do_ like to use poison. 

Poisons that have entered the body can be cleared using specific antidotes (if any), the holy magic _Cure Poison_ or _Refresh_ , or the spirit magic _Restore Health_ . 

To remove a poison with magic, the caster's final score (magic power + 2D roll) must be greater than or equal to the poison's **toxicity score** . Once a detox fails, the same caster cannot attempt detox magic until their magic power increases (and even if they try, they will always fail). 

Even if you detoxify someone _after_ they die from poison, they will _not_ come back to life. Some poisons have symptoms similar to illnesses, but they are _not_ natural illnesses and _cannot_ be cured with _Cure Disease_ . 

The spirit magic _Purification_ can make liquid poison harmless if the final score when casting the magic is greater than or equal to than the toxicity score. However, it’s _not_ possible to drive off a poison that’s _already_ entered the body. 

## **12.2.1.2 Resistance to Poison** 

Poisons are not effective against everything. It has no effect on monsters that have no life such as undead, golems, etc. Some mythical and magical beasts have strong life force that makes them 

immune to poison. Some poison effects may or may not affect specific monsters. 

Monsters that use poison as weapons are immune to their _own_ poisons (but are still affected by _other_ poisons). 

## **How to Read Poison 12.2.1.3 Details** 

Poison details are expressed as follows. 

**[ Ale (Dose) ]** 

Effect=Euphoria, drunkenness, in rare cases headache and vomiting, very rarely death Toxicity Score =10 Rarity=5 

Effect Start Time=30 minutes later Effect Duration=2 days 

This is an alcoholic beverage made by fermenting barley. Drinking a little can help lighten your mood and relieve stress, but drinking too much can leave you drunk (in this state, you suffer a -4 penalty on all success rolls). You may also experience headaches and nausea after a certain period of time. Some adventurers, other than dwarves, have extremely low tolerance for alcohol, and such characters cannot resist this poison (?) no matter how high their adventurer level. It is up to the player to decide whether or not to set their character this way. 

## 《 **Usage** 》 

The **usage** of the poison is written in parentheses after the name. These are divided into **injected** , **inhaled** , **dose** , and **touch** . _Injected_ poisons are poisons that need to be delivered directly into the bloodstream, usually in liquid form. It's applied to small daggers and needles and used as traps on doors and treasure chests. It can be applied to knives and arrows to increase their killing power, but the poison usually wears off after about three uses and loses its effect, so it must be reapplied frequently. Many creatures, such as giant scorpions, poisonous snakes, etc. use injected poison as a weapon. This type of poison only takes effect if you lose 1 or more 

points of life force when you are hurt by a poisoned blade. Even if the blade hits, if it doesn't cause a wound, it has no effect. 

_Inhaled_ poisons are in gas or powder form and take effect when inhaled through the respiratory tract. This is also often used as a trap, but another method is to store it in a breakable bottle and use it by slamming it into your opponent. In rare cases, some creatures use poison gas as a weapon. 

If you’re trapped in a room filled with poison gas, you must make a resistance roll every round. If you hold your breath, you will not be affected by the gas, but of course you will not be able to speak or cast spells while holding your breath. An adventurer can only hold their breath for a number of rounds equal to their life force. 

_Dose_ poison is used by mixing it into food or drink and comes in powder or liquid form. It is mainly used for assassinations, so adventurers will barely use it. 

_Touch_ poison comes in liquid or powder form and can penetrate through the skin. There are not many types of them, and as expected they are often used as traps. 

## 《 **Types of Poison** 》 

Poisons are sometimes labeled as **magic** , **mind** , or **damage** , depending on how they affect you. 

Those that say _magic_ are poisons that have magical effects. These are basically magical items, so they respond to the ancient magic called _Sense Magic_ . Magical poisons and their effects can be removed with _Dispel Magic_ as well as _Purification_ , _Cure Poison_ , etc. 

Those that say _mind_ are poisons that affect the target's mind. The holy magic _Sanity_ is effective. The poison's effect also vanishes when another effect appears due to magic that belongs to _mind_ . Poisons that are both _magic_ and _mind_ are equivalent to magic that has a _target score_ . The _target score_ of a poison is the same as its _toxicity score_ (described later). 

160 

Those that say _damage_ are poisons that damage life force (points), but there are common rules for these types of poisons. Each poison has its own unique strike power and bonus damage. If this type of poison enters your body, you will suffer this damage. Make a strike roll as you would for any magic that deals damage. If you roll 10 or greater, it becomes a critical. 

Those affected by the poison can reduce this damage. For characters, the score is adventurer level, and for monsters, it’s monster level. After deducting this score, if 1 or more damage remains, your life force (points) will be subtracted by the amount of damage that remains. 

Those affected by the poison can attempt a life force resistance roll. If you successfully resist, the damage will be reduced (in this case, strike power will be -10 and no criticals will occur) or you will not suffer any damage at all. 

## 《 **Effect** 》 

A brief summary of the effects of the poison. 

## 《 **Toxicity Score** 》 

Each poison has a **toxicity score** . When the poison enters the body, make a life force resistance roll (for monsters, a life _point_ resistance roll) using the toxicity score as the target score. If you fail, the effect will appear, but if you succeed, the effect will only appear incomplete or won't appear at all. The toxicity scores listed here are just examples; by diluting the substance, the toxicity score can be made as low as desired, and by concentrating it, it can be made somewhat greater. When you cast the holy magic _Cure Poison_ on someone who has been poisoned, compare the final score when casting the magic to this toxicity score. If the final score is equal to or greater than the toxicity score, the poison can be removed by the magic. 

## 《 **Rarity** 》 

This represents how famous the poison is. The higher this score, the rarer the poison. An adventurer must make a success roll using _sage skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score, and if they succeed, they will know about the poison. You can also _guess_ the name of the poison when you see the symptoms of the poisoned person. If your success roll is 4 or more above the **rarity** , you can also know how to _make_ the poison and its antidote (if it has one). 

However, even if you know how to make it, whether or not you _can_ make it is another matter. Some poisons require very rare ingredients. If a player declares that they want to make a poison (or antidote), the game master is responsible for deciding which materials are needed. The time it takes to mix a poison (or antidote) varies from one hour to one week. Also, poisons with magical effects can _only_ be mixed by sorcerers. 

## 《 **Effect Start Time** 》 

This is the time it takes from when the poison enters the body until it begins to take effect. Some poisons have an immediate effect, while others take many hours to take effect. 

## 《 **Effect Duration** 》 

It represents the time from when the poison's effect appears until it disappears. 

## 《 **Description** 》 

After basic data is presented, a detailed description is provided. 

## **12.2.1.4 Poison List** 

Typical poisons include the following. There are many other types of poisons as well. 

**[ Iocane (Dose)** Effect=Fatal Toxicity Score=15 Rarity=12 Effect Start Time= 1 round later Effect Duration=Instant 

This is the most terrifying poison used for assassination. This is because this poison is completely transparent, tasteless, and odorless, so it’ll never be noticed if it's mixed into alcohol or food. If you fail to resist, you will die, but if you succeed, there’ll be no harm at all. 

## **[ Eternal Child (Dose) ]** Effect=Make the person who took it 

into a child 

Toxicity Score=14 Rarity=16 

Effect Start Time=1 hour later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is a sweet-smelling liquid that is mixed into sweets, etc. Those who fail to resist become young children. Their ability scores are all divided by 6 (rounded up). If you are detoxed, you will recover (grow) within a few days, but unless you are detoxed, you will have to act with the same physique and mentality as a child. This poison does _not_ have the effect of reversing a character’s age, and may cause them to die of old age while remaining a child. 

## **[Kaleidoscope (Injected or Dose)]** 

Effect=Causes illusions 

Toxicity Score=11 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=1 hour 

This is a hallucinogenic poison. Those who fail to resist will be attacked by hallucinations starting on the next round. Enemies may appear to have multiple parts, allies may appear to be monsters, or the surrounding scenery may appear to have changed. The victim suffers a -4 penalty on all checks while this condition lasts. 

161 

**[Gremlin's Grin (Injected/Magic)]** Effect=Cause memory loss Toxicity Score=13 Rarity=13 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is so named because its effect is similar to the _Forget_ magic used by gremlins. Those who fail to resist will have no memory of their past, and will be unable to use any abilities related to intelligence (those that use intelligence bonus to calculate a baseline score). 

## **[Centauri Blood (Touch/Damage)]** 

Effect=Deals strike power 30 damage plus 12 bonus damage every hour. Resist reduces effect 

Toxicity Score=14 Rarity=14 

Effect Start Time=1 hour later Effect Duration=Permanent 

A poison said to have been invented by a wise centaur. There is a myth that it’s made from the blood of centaurs, but it’s actually made from the fruit of certain plants. It’s used in assassinations by soaking it into items that are close to the body, such as underwear, etc. It's naturally a red liquid, but if you soak it in a cloth and then wash it, it becomes colorless. Even if you wash it, only the color will come off, and the poisonous ingredients will remain on the cloth. 

What's more, this poison is completely harmless at room temperature, and only becomes toxic when warmed by body heat. Those wearing cloth soaked with centauri blood will experience intense pain and heat after one hour. Once that happens, you can no longer strip it from your body or wash it off, and it will continue to deal damage every hour from then on. The damage is a terrifying strike power 30 plus bonus damage 12. A successful resistance roll will reduce the damage. This poison is said to have killed a famous hero. 

**[Sandman's Sand (Inhaled/Mind)]** Effect=Put to sleep Toxicity Score=10 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=1 hour 

It has this name because its effect is similar to the spirit magic _Sleep_ , but it’s also called _black lotus_ because it's made from black lotus seeds. The strong flower-scented gas will put anyone who fails to resist into a state of sleep. 

## **[Stone Tongue (Injected)]** 

Effect=Become unable to speak Toxicity Score=12 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time= 1 round later Effect Duration=24 hours 

A neurogenic poison that paralyzes the speech center, rendering those who fail to resist unable to speak or cast spells for 24 hours. 

## **[Zombie Maker (Dose/Mind)]** 

Effect=Paralyze the mind, making it into a robot Toxicity Score=11 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=24 hours 

This is a black liquid poison and is a type of narcotic. Those who fail to resist will lose all will and emotion and become like a doll. If someone pulls their arm, they will stagger, and if someone calls them, they will respond in an emotionless voice, but they cannot do anything of their own will. 

Around one additional hour of suggestions can transform the victim into a robot that follows commands. Victims turned into robots faithfully follow the commands of the person who gave them the suggestions, and will casually kill even their family and friends (they _cannot_ use magic). However, if you suffer a very strong physical or mental shock, you may recover from the paralysis even before the duration expires. 

**[Dark Blade (Injected/Damage)]** Effect=Become disabled, and suffer strike power 20 damage plus bonus damage 6 every 10 minutes. Resist negates effect Toxicity Score=15 Rarity=10 Effect Start Time= 1 round later Effect Duration=Permanent 

A poison often used by assassins, it is a pitch-black viscous liquid. If you are wounded by a knife coated with this poison, you will suffer damage every 10 minutes thereafter. The victim continues to suffer damage until the poison wears off or they die. During this time, you will be in terrible pain and unable to take any action. If treatment is delayed, you may remain in a coma for several days after the poison wears off. If you succeed on a resistance roll, you will not suffer any damage. 

**[Deathlike Sleep (Dose)]** Effect=Put into suspended animation Toxicity Score=14 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time= 1 round later Effect Duration=12 hours 

This is a liquid poison. Those who fail to resist will stop breathing and their heart will stop, making them appear completely dead. However, they’re actually in a state of suspended animation and will return to normal after 12 hours. 

**[Deadly Dust (Inhaled/Damage)]** Effect=Deals strike power 10 damage plus bonus damage 1. Resist negates effect. Toxicity Score=10 Rarity=9 Effect Start Time=Immediately Effect Duration=Instant 

A fine powdered poison that requires a resistance roll each time you inhale, resulting in damage if you fail. 

162 

## **[ Dream Runner (Inhaled) ]** 

Effect=Gives happy dreams Toxicity Score=10 Rarity=10 Effect Start Time= 6 rounds later Effect Duration=1 hour 

This is smoke produced when the leaves of certain plants are burned. Those who fail to resist will fall asleep and have happy dreams. If you use it too many times, you may harm your health or go crazy. 

## **[ Bad Joke (Inhaled)** 

Effect=Make you laugh Toxicity Score=11 Rarity=10 Effect Start Time= 1 round later Effect Duration=1 round 

This is a gas that smells good. Those who fail to resist will end up laughing, unable to cast spells that round, and will suffer a -2 penalty on all checks. 

## **[Beast Maker (Dose/Magic)]** 

Effect=Turn into an animal Toxicity Score=13 

Rarity=15 Effect Start Time= 12 rounds later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is a liquid with a slight odor, used by mixing into cooking, etc. It has an effect similar to the ancient magic _Shape Change_ , and those who drink it and fail to resist will be transformed into an animal. There are several types of _Beast Maker_ , including ones that turn you into a pig, ones that turn you into a dog and ones that turn you into a horse. Particularly powerful ones can turn you into a mythical beast such as a scylla, etc. 

## **[Black Death (Touch, Injected, or Inhaled/Magic, Damage)]** 

Effect=Turns skin black and deals strike power 20 damage plus 6 bonus damage every hour. Resist reduces effect Toxicity Score=13 Rarity=12 Effect Start Time=1 hour later Effect Duration=24 hours 

This is a special black viscous poison that enters the body when it comes in 

contact with the skin. It will continue to deal damage every hour thereafter. 

**[ Blue Nail (Injected)** Effect=Full body paralysis Toxicity Score=10 

Rarity=10 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=12 hours 

This is similar to the poison contained in ghoul claws, and those who fail to resist will be paralyzed all over, unable to move or speak. 

## **[White Marble (Inhaled/Magic)]** 

Effect=Stiffens the whole body Toxicity Score=11 Rarity=13 Effect Start Time= 2 rounds later Effect Duration=Permanent 

It's a white gas. Those who inhale this and fail to resist will have their entire body stiffen and become like a statue. Victims retain their will and senses, but are unable to move a single finger. 

## **[Midnight Scream (Touch/Mind)]** 

Effect=Cause intense fear Toxicity Score=13 Rarity=14 Effect Start Time=6 rounds later Effect Duration=1 hour 

This is a viscous poison and is used by smearing it on doorknobs, etc. Those who touch this poison and fail to resist will be struck with intense fear. Determine its effect using Table 5-5: Fears (see p. 89). 

## **[Moonlight Drone (Dose/Magic)]** 

Effect=Change gender Toxicity Score=14 Rarity=15 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is a small granular poison, and if someone drinks it and fails to resist, they will become a woman if they're a man, and a man if they're a woman. There are no other penalties. Additionally, there are no changes to the magic that shamans can use. If you drink it again, you can return to normal. 

## **[Medusa Eyes (Dose/Magic)]** 

Effect=Petrification Toxicity Score=16 

Rarity=13 Effect Start Time=6 rounds later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is a clear liquid poison that has a slight odor, so it's used by mixing with alcohol, etc. Those who fail to resist will have their bodies petrified and become stone statues. 

## **[ Love Passion (Inhaled, Dose/Magic, Mind) ]** 

Effect=Fall in love with the first person you see 

Toxicity Score=13 Rarity=11 Effect Start Time=1 round later Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is what's called a _love potion_ . It tastes and smells like alcohol, and takes effect not only by drinking it but also by smelling it (if it's only inhaled, its toxicity score is 9). Those who fail to resist will fall passionately in love with the first thing they see (regardless of gender or race). The only people you can fall in love with are fae, youma, titans, and mythical beasts that have human body parts (centaurs, etc.); you cannot fall in love with undead, animals, etc. 

The recipe for love passion has now been completely lost, so it's no longer possible to make it. There are only a few left from the ancient kingdom period, and they are traded at high prices. 

## **[Living Doll (Injected/Magic)]** 

Effect=Turns women into little people and men into monsters 

Toxicity Score=13 Rarity=17 Effect Start Time=1 round left Effect Duration=Permanent 

This is a very rare type of poison, and only a few know the recipe. If a woman is wounded by a knife poisoned with this and fails to resist, her body will shrink and become a little person, about 30 cm tall, and will enter a state of suspended animation. The victims look like dolls, hence the name. 

163 

This poison has its normal effect only on women. When a man is affected by this poison and fails to resist, his body undergoes abnormal mutations as a side effect, turning him into a mutant monster. 

For mutant monster details, refer to page 226. 

## **12.2.2** 

## **Illnesses** 

This section summarizes the rules regarding illnesses. 