# 5.1.11 Ancient Magic and the Sorcerer Skill

## 《 **Base Mental Power Cost** 》 

The base mental power cost represents how much mental power is consumed when using that magic. As previously explained, this base mental power cost divided by the corresponding rune master skill level equals the actual mental power consumed by the caster. 

## 《 **Distance** 》 

This represents the distance the magic can reach. Basically, magic works on things that the caster can see and are within this distance. Any exceptions will always be noted in the explanation that follows. If the distance is **touch** , the caster must touch the target with their hand or (for ancient magic) with their magical catalyst (see below). To cast these spells in combat, you must be _engaged_ with the target. At this time, there is no need to roll dice to determine whether you've touched your opponent, like with an attack hit check (you can touch them automatically). 

## 《 **Area** 》 

This represents the target that the magic affects. 

If it says **caster** , the magic works only on the caster who cast the spell. 

When it says **one** , it works on one enemy or ally. It is also possible for casters to cast it on themselves. 

If it works on a **specific space or area** , then everything within that area is targeted. For example, a _Fireball_ explosion deals explosion damage to everything within a 3 meter radius. It makes no difference whether it's the caster's enemies, allies, or the caster. There are many other ways to write this, but it should be clear if you read the description. 

## 《 **Duration** 》 

This represents how long the magic will remain in effect. This includes **instant** , **18 rounds** , **1 day** , **permanent** , **until focus ends** or **until certain** 

**conditions are met** . For magic whose duration is _instant_ , the magic itself disappears in an instant, but its effects remain. Wounds caused by a _Fireball_ explosion will remain, and if you receive healing by _Cure Wounds_ , those wounds will be recovered instantly. 

## 《 **Effect** 》 

This is a brief description of the magic's effect. Once you've read the detailed description, you'll be able to recall the general effect of the magic just by looking at this. 

## 《 **Type** 》 

Represents the type of magic. Please see 5.1.9: Magic Types. **Counters (negates):** and **counters (overpowers):** describe magic that can be negated _by_ this magic, while **countered (negated) by:** and **countered (overpowered) by:** describe magic that can negate _this_ magic. However, _Dispel Magic_ , _Counter Sense_ , _Suppress Elemental_ , _Dispel Order_ , _Rune Shield_ , _Perfect Cancellation_ , _Neutralize Elemental_ , and _Remove Curse_ omit this. Magic of the **mind** , **physical ability** , and **weapon enhancement** types also omit _counters_ and _countered by_ , since they are sufficiently described. 

## 《 **Expansion** 》 

Represents which expansion types can be performed. Please see 5.1.7.1: Expansion Types. 

## 《 **Resist** 》 

This represents whether the magic can be resisted, and what will happen if it is resisted. 

**None** : No resist can be performed. Spells always take their effect. 

**Negated Effect** : If resisted, the spell does not take its effect. 

**Reduced Effect** : If resisted, the spell only takes an incomplete effect. Spells of the _damage_ type will have their strike 

power reduced by -10 and can no longer critical. 

After these details are briefly written, a detailed description of each spell is written. Be sure to read it over before attempting to use something you've never used before. 

## **5.1.11** 

## **Ancient Magic and the Sorcerer Skill** 

_High ancient_ are the great runes that were developed and studied during the time of the ancient kingdom. The power of these runes releases magic forces and brings about various effects. Many of the spells and runes of this system were lost with the fall of the ancient kingdom, but a small amount of them have been passed down to modern Forcelia, and are now referred to as **ancient magic** . The skill for using ancient magic is called the _sorcerer skill_ , and those who have this skill are called _sorcerers_ . 

## **Restrictions on Using 5.1.11.1 Ancient Magic** 

Ancient magic has powerful effects because it draws its source of power (which is sometimes called _mana_ ) directly from matter, but it is subject to the following two restrictions in order to cast the spells correctly: 

1. Must have a staff (mage's staff) as a _magical catalyst_ 

2. Due to complex gestures required, armor is limited to _cloth_ or _soft leather_ 

If you don't obey these two things, you won't be able to use ancient magic. Other rules follow the basic rules of magic. 

66

## **Basic Abilities of the 5.1.11.2 Sorcerer Skill** 

The sorcerer skill includes the following basic abilities in addition to spells: 

## 《 **High Ancient** 》 

Sorcerers can speak, read, and write in high ancient. It seems that these runes were used in official texts and conversation in the ancient kingdom, but now much of it has been lost, except for the few that remain in spellbooks. 

## 《 **Low Ancient** 》 

This was an everyday language of the ancient kingdom, called **low ancient** , and was the language used by citizens and slaves. Sorcerers can speak, read and write in this language. Low ancient was used in informal texts in the ancient kingdom. 

## **Characteristics of Sorcerers 5.1.11.3 and Ancient Magic** 

Sorcerers and the ancient magic they handle have the following characteristics: 

## 《 **Spellbook** 》 

A sorcerer must somehow preserve the ancient magic spells they've learned. Otherwise, even those with the greatest minds cannot possibly memorize all the words, actions, etc. needed to cast spells. 

For this reason, it is customary for sorcerers to write these spells down in a book called a **spellbook** . A spellbook is, so to speak, just a handwritten notebook, and the spellbook itself has no magical power of its own. However, because it's a very important thing, it would be a disaster if it were lost or stolen, so some sorcerers may keep several copies in reserve. 

When you go on an adventure, or you're in a situation where you'd need to use magic, you'd usually bring your spellbook with you. However, no sorcerer looks at their spellbook every 

time they try to cast a spell. This is because the words and actions of a spell are usually sharply memorized in your head. A spellbook is used to review them, always confirming and ensuring your memory. 

There are no special restrictions on spellbooks according to the rules. Nevertheless, keep in mind that sorcerers in Sword World always keep their spellbooks with them, and remember to take very good care of them. 

## 《 **Magical Catalyst** 》 

Sorcerers require a special medium to cast spells. This is a **magical catalyst** , and it is through this that a sorcerer exercises the power of a spell. Usually, a specially-made mage's staff is used as a magical catalyst, made from a wooden staff with a _Create Device_ spell cast on it. This is why you must have a mage's staff as a restriction when using ancient magic. However, some sorcerers substitute other things besides staves. For example, Laverna, the witch of Orphan, uses an amethyst ring she wears on her right middle finger as her magical catalyst, and Cyanos, leader of the magic knights of Ramliearth, carries a small twig wand in his left hand as a magical catalyst. 

**==> picture [189 x 366] intentionally omitted <==**

67