# 5.1.12 Ancient Magic List

## **5.1.12** 

## **Ancient Magic List** 

## **1st Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Unlock ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=Touch Area=One thing that opens and closes Duration=Instant Effect=Unlocks locks, etc., opens doors, lids, etc. 

Type=Counters (Overpowers): _Lock_ , _Hard Lock_ 

Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This magic unlocks non-magical locks, etc. as if you had used the correct key, and opens doors, treasure chest lids, etc. 

## **[ Energy Bolt ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=5 Distance=30 meters Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Creates a strike power 10 arrow of energy Type=Damage (Pure energy-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

An arrow of glowing white energy flies in a straight line from the caster to the target. This arrow will never miss. Strike power is 10. 

## **[ Enchant Weapon ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 Distance=10 meters Area=One weapon Duration=18 Rounds Effect=+5 to weapon's strike power Type=Weapon enhancement Expansion=Duration, distance, targets Resist=None 

This spell can be used on any weapon (of any type) and adds +5 to that weapon's strike power. So a strike power 10 weapon would become 15. Attack power and critical target do not change. 

This magic allows you to deal damage to monsters that cannot be damaged by normal weapons. However, in this case, 

the strike roll can only be made with the strike power set to 5, regardless of the weapon's own strike power. 

This spell can also be cast directly on a living creature. In that case, strike power of bare hands, claws, fangs, etc. will gain +5 (or +1 if strike points). 

If you apply it to a projectile such as a bow, everything fired from it will gain +5 to strike power, which makes it effective against monsters that normal weapons cannot affect. 

## **[ Counterspell ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=+2 to mental power resistance Type=Expansion=Duration, distance, targets Resist=None 

This spell has the ability to rejuvenate the body and mind, and can increase mental power resistance by +2. This bonus is effective on any mental power resistance roll. 

## **[ Chameleon ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Assimilates caster's appearance into the surrounding scenery, making them invisible 

Type=Focus, illusion Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

Casters who cast this can make themselves invisible to others, similar to how a chameleon changes color and assimilates into the surrounding landscape. 

## **[ Sleep Cloud ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=5 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Instant Effect=Alters the air within the area of effect, putting anything inside it to sleep Type=Expansion=Final score, distance, area Resist=Negated effect 

This spell alters the air in a space within a 5 meter radius from the target, creating a gas with the effect of instantly putting any creatures inside to sleep. Anything within the area is affected, friend or foe, but targets that make a successful resistance roll will be completely unaffected by the spell. 

Those that fail to resist fall asleep, but since it’s a natural sleep, they will wake up immediately if there’s any noise, etc. in their surroundings. If there's combat, etc. happening in their surroundings, they can make a resistance roll each round, and wake up if successful. Also, if they're dealt physical or mental damage, if they receive a shock such as being hit or kicked even if it does not deal damage, or if an extremely loud noise is made, they will automatically wake up without the need for a resistance roll. 

## **[ Sense Magic ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=Caster Area=Within the caster's view Duration=18 rounds Effect=Know where and what magical power is working on Type=Detection Expansion=Duration Resist=None 

By casting this spell, a normally invisible magical aura becomes visible to the caster. This lets you know if there are magical items, magical traps, etc. within your field of view. However, it’s not possible to discern exactly what magical powers are at work. You also cannot find things whose form you can't see directly, such as things inside a box. 

## **[ Darkness ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 Distance=10 meters Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=12 hours Effect=Creates a dark space within the area of effect Type=Counters (Negates): _Light_ Counters (Overpowers): _Will-O-Wisp_ , _Spirit Wall: Wisp_ Countered (Negated) By: _Light_ Expansion=Duration, Distance, Target volume 

68

## Resist=None 

This can be used on any single point in space or on any object, canceling out the light in a space within a 10 meter radius from that point, completely closing it in darkness. 

## **[ Decrease Weight ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=10 meters Area=One object Duration=18 rounds Effect=Reduce the weight of an object Type=Lost Counters (Negates): _Increase Weight_ Countered (Negated) By: _Increase Weight_ Expansion=Duration, distance, targets, effect (see description) Resist=None 

This spell is used on a single object and has the effect of reducing the target’s weight. If cast on a weapon or armor, it has the effect of reducing the target's required strength by -1 _without_ changing its strike power or defense power. When used on other objects, it has the ability to reduce their weight by about 90%. 

This spell’s effect can be expanded. If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... the required strength can become _-2_ or _-3_ ...... for weapons and armor. For other objects, it’ll be reduced by 10% each time. When reducing the weight of an object, it’s reduced by 90% each, the rate of _double_ expansion would be _0.9 x 0.9 = 0.81 times_ . For _triple_ , it’d be _0.9 x 0.9 x 0.9 = 0.721 times_ . To reduce the weight by _half_ , you must expand it _7 times_ , and to reduce it to _1/10th_ , you must expand it _22 times_ . 

Even if you reduce the required strength, the strike power or defense power of weapons and armor will _not_ change. Also, in this case, required strength can only be reduced to 1. 

## **[ Dispel Magic ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=5 

## Distance=10 meters 

Area=One person, one object, or a space with a 5 meter radius 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Removes the effects of other spells cast on the target 

## Type=Ritual 

Counters (Negates): All magic except _curses_ and _non-removable_ 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets or area 

Resist=None 

This spell acts as a negative force against all other spells and can remove their effects. Any spells cast on the targeted person, object, or space will be removed. 

Items with permanent magical power cannot be removed by this magic, because they are _non-removable_ . 

## **[ Kindle ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=Touch Area=Flammable material a few cm in size 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Ignites flammable materials such as pieces of wood or paper 

Type=Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a spell used on flammable objects several centimeters in size, causing them to ignite. The effect of the spell will disappear in an instant, but the object should burn on its own afterwards. This spell’s effect only works on highly flammable objects such as oil, dead grass, and sawdust, so it's completely useless if used on live trees or non-flammable materials. It has almost no effect on monsters either. 

## **[ Protection ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=10 meters Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Reduce any damage dealt to life force by 1 point. 

Type=- 

Expansion=Duration, distance, targets Resist=None 

This spell creates a magical barrier around the target's body, reducing the damage the target suffers by 1 point. This spell takes effect against anything that deals direct damage, whether it's a physical attack or a magical attack. However, it has no effect at all on spells that are offensive but do not deal damage 

to life force. It also cannot prevent damage dealt to mental power 

## **[ Magic Protection ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=4 Distance=Touch 

Area=One specific object 

## Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Gives the targeted object resistance to magic 

Type=Target score 

Countered (Overpowered) By: Any other magic that's not _detection_ -type Expansion=Final score 

Resist=None 

This spell has the effect of giving magic resistance to objects that do not have it. If the targeted object is exposed to another spell that's not _detection_ type, it will resist that spell unless the opponent succeeds on a success roll against a target score equal to the final score from when _Magic Protection_ was cast. If a successful resist, the opponent’s spell will either completely lose its effect, or will take only an incomplete effect. If the resist fails, the spell will take its full effect, and furthermore the _Magic Protection_ spell itself will be removed. 

Even spells with a _resist_ of _none_ can be resisted by _Magic Protection_ . In this case, the spell will take no effect at all. For example, if you cast _Kindle_ on a bundle of straw that has _Magic Protection_ cast on it, if _Kindle_ cannot break through the protection of _Magic Protection_ (the final score is insufficient), it won't be able to ignite. 

This spell is powerless against spells that belong to _detection_ . Therefore, objects with this spell cast on them _will_ respond to _Sense Magic_ . 

Also, if you cast it on something that naturally has resistance (humans, fae, youma, etc.), it will have no effect at all. 

## **[ Light ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=12 hours 

Effect=Lights a magical light within the area of effect 

Type=Counters (Negates): _Darkness_ 

69

Counters (Overpowers): _Shade_ , _Spirit Wall: Shade_ 

Countered (Negated) By: _Darkness_ Expansion=Duration, distance, target volume Resist=None 

This spell is used on an object or a point in space. It has no effect at all when used on living things. Using a single point as a light source, a space with a 10 meter radius  is filled with white magical light. The further away you are from the light source, the more the effect of the light will fade. If you cast it on a portable object such as a shield, you can move the light source along with the object. 

## **[ Lock ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

## Distance=Touch 

Area=One object that opens and closes Duration=1 day 

Effect=Puts a magical lock on objects that open and close, such as doors, lids, etc. Type=Target score Countered (Overpowered) By: _Unlock_ Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

This spell can be used on objects that open and close, such as doors, treasure chest lids, etc. to place a magical lock on them. As a result, the door or lid will never open unless you chant the password you chose when casting the spell. This password does _not_ have to be in high ancient. 

## **2nd Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Oak ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=8 Distance=Touch Area=An oak tree branch Duration=1 hour Effect=Create a child-sized wood golem and make it fight Type=Non-removable Expansion=Duration, targets Resist=None 

This spell creates a 1-meter tall, goblin-esque wood golem from a tree branch. This simplified version of a wood golem came to be called an _Oak_ because the material used was many oak tree branches, so that eventually became the 

name of the spell. Oaks can only fight, and the caster must specify whom to attack. Or otherwise, they can specify a location, and have the oak attack anyone invading that location. After the spell's duration expires, the oak will turn back into a branch. 

See p. 222 for oak scores. 

## **[ Sense Enemy ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=6 

## Distance=Caster 

Area=Within the caster's view Duration=18 round 

Effect=Makes the presence of hostility clear to the caster 

Type=Detection Expansion=Duration Resist=None 

By casting this spell, the caster can learn of the presence of anything that has aggressive intentions towards them. Aggressive intentions in this case refers to a desire to deal physical or mental damage to the caster, so cases such as simply wanting to steal the caster's money will not be detected. However, if the theft is committed in order to cause problems for someone, you will be able to sense that intention. 

Anything that is not directly visible to the caster cannot be detected, even if it is hostile. 

## **[ Disguise ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=6 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster Duration=1 hour Effect=Change the caster’s appearance Type=Illusion Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=Negated effect 

This spell is a type of illusion magic that works on the caster, changing their appearance into something else. However, this spell cannot significantly change the size or shape of your body. So a thin person cannot become an obese person, and a human cannot look like a grassrunner or a dwarf. 

## **[ Fire Weapon ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=10 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One weapon Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Wraps a weapon in magical fire, adding +10 to strike power 

Type=Weapon enhancement, target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

This is a spell used on weapons. The targeted weapon will now emit a magical flame from its striking end, adding a +10 bonus to the weapon's own strike power. This spell will _not_ change the attack power or critical target of the weapon. For monsters that are weak against fire, you can add an extra +10 bonus to strike power (+20 total). Conversely, this spell's bonus to strike power will not apply to monsters that resist fire. 

This spell can be used to damage monsters that only magic weapons are effective against. However, in such a case, the strike power will be _10_ regardless of the strike power of the weapon itself. Monsters that can only be wounded by magic and are _also_ immune to fire _cannot_ be dealt damage by attacking them with a weapon that had this spell cast on it. 

This spell can also be cast directly on a living creature. In that case, strike power of bare hands, claws, fangs, etc. will gain +10 (or +2 if strike points). The creature itself is not affected by this fire, but if it is attacked by fire from others, it will still suffer damage. If you apply it to a projectile such as a bow, you do not have to apply it to each individual arrow. If you do apply it to a bow, arrows, etc. fired from it will automatically be engulfed in flames, allowing them to receive the effects of this spell. 

## **[ Falling Control ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=6 

Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=You can control falling speed Type=Expansion=Duration, distance, targets Resist=None 

70

A target with this spell cast on them can fall at any speed they desire, ignoring their normal falling speed. The falling speed can be infinitely close to 0, but it cannot be _completely_ 0, nor can it infinitely _increase_ . You also cannot fall faster than _twice_ your normal falling speed. 

Also, if the target on whom the spell is cast has lost consciousness, is unconscious, or is an animate object and has no mind, the caster can instead control the target's falling speed. 

## **[ Replace Sound ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=6 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=Space with a 1 meter radius Duration=18 rounds Effect=Sounds within the area of effect can be generated elsewhere Type=Illusion 

Countered (Overpowered) By: _Silence_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area Resist=Negated effect 

This spell can cause all sounds occurring in a space within a 1-meter radius around the caster to be generated elsewhere. This spell can also be used within a more narrow area of effect, so you can just transfer your own words. At this time, sounds within the area of effect will not be heard at all from that location, and you will not be able to choose and transfer sounds. 

## **3rd Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Increase Weight ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=9 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One object Duration=18 rounds Effect=Increase the weight of an object Type=Lost Counters (Negates): _Decrease Weight_ Countered (Negated) By: _Decrease Weight_ Expansion=Duration, distance, targets, effect (see description) Resist=None 

This spell is used on a single object and has the ability to increase the target’s weight. If cast on a weapon or armor, it 

has the effect of increasing required strength by +1 (strike power does not change). When used on other objects, consider it to have the effect of increasing their weight by 10%. 

This spell’s effect can be expanded. If you _double_ or _triple_ the amount of mental power you consume...... the required strength can become _+2_ or _+3_ ...... for weapons and armor. For other objects, it’ll be increased by 10% each time. When increasing the weight of an object, it’s increased by 10% each, the rate of _double_ expansion would be _1.1 x 1.1 = 1.21 times_ . For _triple_ , it’d be _1.1 x 1.1 x 1.1 = 1.331 times._ To _double_ the weight, you must expand it _8 times_ , and to increase it _tenfold_ , you must expand it _25 times_ . 

If this spell would cause a weapon or armor's required strength to exceed its owner's strength, that character cannot act. However, if you're using the optional rules under _16.8: Weapons and Armor That Are Too Heavy_ (see p. 268), they can still act, but they'll receive a penalty to attack power, evasion speed, etc. Even if you increase the required strength, the strike power or defense power of weapons and armor will not change. 

## **[ Create Image ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=9 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=1 hour Effect=Can create visual illusions Type=Illusion Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that creates a visual illusion in the space within its area of effect. This illusion does not have to be a static image; it can be something that moves. However, in this case, the movement will repeat on a loop after a maximum of about 5 minutes. 

What kind of illusion is created depends on the caster's imagination. However, this illusion cannot deal physical damage. 

## **[ Stone Servant ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=12 

Distance=Touch Area=One stone Duration=1 hour 

Effect=Create a human-sized stone golem and make it obey your commands Type=Non-removable Expansion=Duration, target score Resist=None 

This spell creates a human-shaped stone golem (1 and a half meters tall) from a stone the size of a clenched fist. This simplified version of a stone golem is specifically called a _Stone Servant_ and can be used to engage in combat or simple tasks. A stone servant's power is about 30 if converted to _strength_ , and furthermore, it never gets tired, so it can complete a considerable amount of heavy labor. However, more complex work is beyond a stone servant's hands. Stone servants obey only the commands of their maker, the sorcerer. After the spell's duration expires, the stone servant will turn back into a stone. 

See p. 223 for stone servant scores. 

## **[ Hard Lock ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=9 Distance=Touch 

Area=One object that opens and closes Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Puts a magical lock on objects that open and close, such as doors, lids, etc., giving them the same strength as iron Type=Target score 

Countered (Overpowered) By: _Unlock_ Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

_Hard Lock_ is a spell that's more powerful than _Lock_ . You can place a magical lock on an object that opens and closes, such as doors, gates, treasure chest lids, etc. to prevent them from opening. Once cast, this spell's effect is permanent until it's removed. Also, no matter what material it's made of, this gives it the same strength as iron. In other words, opening a door or lid with _Hard Lock_ requires the same effort as destroying an iron wall or an iron box. 

71