## 5.1.12 Ancient Magic List

By casting this spell, the caster can read unknown languages. Each time you use this spell, you can only read _one_ language, if you want to read _two_ unknown languages at the same time, you must _double_ the spell's effect. 

## **[ Vision ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=15 Distance=Caster 

Area=Within the caster's view Duration=18 rounds Effect=Increases the caster's vision Type=Detection Expansion=Duration Resist=None 

This is a spell that increases the caster's vision by several times, allowing them to see things far away. Just think of it as having the same effect as using binoculars to see far away. Therefore, anything that’s not in view, such as behind a wall, will not become visible even if you use this spell. 

## **[ Flight ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster Duration=1 hour Effect=Gives the caster the ability to fly Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

Casting this spell allows the caster to fly freely. The speed of flying in the sky is what would be movement speed 50, and during full movement, 50 km per hour is the maximum speed. However, even if movement speed changes, the caster's agility itself does not change. If the spell's effect is removed while you're flying, you'll naturally fall. In this case, apply the rules for falling damage (see p. 122). 

## **[ Blizzard ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=25 

Distance=20 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Instant 

Effect=Creates an ice storm, dealing strike power 20 damage to those within range Type=Damage (Cold-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, area, damage certainty 

## Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell creates a sudden storm containing countless pieces of ice the size of pebbles, in a space within a 5 meter radius centered on a point, dealing cold damage to everything within range. Its strike power is 20. 

## **6th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Acid Cloud ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Instant Effect=Deals strike power 30 damage to targets within the area of effect Type=Damage (Poison gas-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

When you cast this spell, you can turn the air within its area of effect into highly acidic poison gas, dealing strike power 30 damage to everything within it. Acid is fleeting and primarily harms the mucous membranes and respiratory organs of living things. It does not affect armor, etc. 

## **[ Analyze Enchantment ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One object Duration=Instant Effect=Appraise and identify magic power applied to objects Type=Detection Counters (Overpowers): _Seal Enchantment_ Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This is a spell that identifies the type of magic being cast on a target and specifies its effect. If it's a regular magical item, you can almost certainly identify the magic. However, some items are safe from the effect of this spell due to the _lost spell_ , _Seal Enchantment_ . When you use this spell on an object that had _Seal Enchantment_ cast on it, its effect cannot be inferred if your final score does not exceed the target score determined by _Seal Enchantment_ . If they fail, the same caster cannot use this spell on the same 

object until their magic power increases (any attempts will always fail). 

## **[ Geas ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Give a target a prohibition command Type=Curse, target score Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell gives the target a " _do not ___ " command and makes them obey it. If the person who had the spell cast on them tries to break this prohibition command, they will suffer severe pain all over their body. The pain is so severe that if you continue to suffer it for more than 10 minutes, you will become mentally abnormal. 

The caster can cancel this spell at will, but the spell will not be removed even if the caster dies. 

This spell's effect only works on those who have some degree of intelligence. At least, if you're not intelligent enough to use language, this spell cannot be cast on you. 

## **[ Create Undead ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=Touch Area=One corpse Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Turns a corpse into undead Type=Non-removable, lost, ritual Expansion=Target volume Resist=None 

_Create Undead_ is a spell that creates undead monsters such as skeletons and zombies. To use this spell, of course, you'll need a corpse (usually a human corpse is used). Depending on the state of decomposition of the corpse, it will determine whether it'll become a skeleton or a zombie. If you use this spell on a mummified or severely decomposed corpse, the corpse will be completely skeletonized and a skeleton will be born. If it's still a corpse before that happens, then a zombie will be born. The caster can give commands to the skeletons and zombies created in this 

76

way. The commands must be extremely simple, at best they can be made to protect a specific location. Even walking alongside you as guards is too difficult for them. For details on human skeletons and zombies, see 13.2.9: Undead (see p. 214). 

If you wish, you can turn non-human animals, fae, youma, titans, mythical beasts, magical beasts, etc. into undead, but to cast this on something larger than human size, you must consume additional mental power (points) to expand the effect. The required mental power (points) increases in proportion with the size of the target ( _double_ for an ogre, _seven times_ for a chimera, and over _1000 times_ for a 20-meter long dragon!). On the other hand, turning small animals into undead does not mean that they consume less mental power. 

Details for non-human skeletons and zombies should be decided by the game master. A rough guideline is to set life scores to 1/2 for skeletons, and 3/2 for zombies. Other scores may not need to be changed. 

## **[ Create Device ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 Distance=Touch 

Area=One wooden staff or object Duration=Permanent Effect=Can create a magical catalyst Type=Non-removable Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a spell that creates a mage's staff, which is a magical catalyst necessary for sorcerers to use ancient magic. All you need is a wooden staff of an appropriate length, and by casting this spell on that staff, you'll create a mage's staff. You can also use this spell to create a _magical catalyst_ other than a mage's staff. 

## **[ Create Buau Zombie ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=Touch Area=One corpse Duration=Permanent Effect=Turns a corpse into a buau zombie Type=Non-removable, lost 

Expansion=Resist=None 

To cast this spell, you need a corpse within a few days of death, so the corpse can be revived as a buau zombie (see p. 214). The caster can make the buau zombie obey commands. This spell only works on human, fae or youma corpses. 

## **[ See-Through ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=18 

## Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 30 meter radius from the caster 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Can see through obstacles and the interior of objects Type=Detection Expansion=Duration, area Resist=None 

This is a clairvoyance spell, so to speak. By casting this spell, the caster can see things on the other side of obstacles such as walls, etc. as well as the interior of boxes, etc. As long as it's within the area of effect, the caster can adjust the desired range and distance they want to see at will. The clairvoyant information appears directly in your mind as an image, so you can still see even if the target location is closed in darkness. 

## **[ Seal Enchantment ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=Touch Area=One object Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Hides magical power applied to an object 

Type=Target score, non-removable, lost Countered (Overpowered) By: _Analyze Enchantment_ 

Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell is used on objects imbued with magical power to hide the presence of that magical power. For this reason, _Sense Magic_ or _Sense Aura_ will no longer be able to distinguish them. When discerning magic power with _Analyze Enchantment_ , you'll need a final score greater than or equal to the _Seal Enchantment_ that was cast on it. 

Sometimes there are items from the ancient kingdom period that have this 

cast on them. Many of them are protected by _Seal Enchantment_ with a final score as high as 30 or greater. 

This spell has no effect when using the sage skill to appraise an item (however, if you don't think it has magical power, you might not try to appraise it). This spell cannot be cast on living things. 

## **[ Steal Mind ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Steals strike power 20 mental power from the target and gives it to the caster Type=Lost, damage (Mind-type, see description) 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This spell allows you to steal mental power (points) from the target and make it your own. First make a strike power 20 check to deal damage to the target, then the target's mental power (points) will be reduced while at the same time the caster's mental power (points) will be recovered by the same amount. If you expand the effect and steal mental power (points) from multiple targets, you can recover the total mental power (points) you stole. However, you cannot make your mental power (points) higher than your original score. Also, it has no effect at all if your opponent successfully resists. This also has no effect on opponents that do not have mental power (points), such as golems and skeletons. 

## **[ Slow ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=Reduce the target's agility by half Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that reduces the target's agility to half its original score. Targets who fail to resist will have their action 

77

order and movement speed reduced by half due to changes in their agility, and their evasion speed (points) will also take a penalty. Regarding the evasion speed (points) penalty, the effect differs depending on the target's original agility. Please refer to Table 5-3: Slow: Agility and Evasion Penalties. 

**Table 5-3: Slow: Agility and Evasion Penalties** 

|Target's<br>Agility|Evasion Speed (Points)<br>Penalty|
|---|---|
|1-5|0|
|6-17|-1|
|18-29|-2|
|30-41|-3|
|42-53|-4|



## **[ Haste ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=Doubles the target's agility Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

This is a spell that doubles the target's agility from its original score. The target's action order and movement speed will be doubled, and their evasion speed (points) will also receive a bonus. Regarding the evasion speed (points) bonus, the effect differs depending on the target's original agility. Please refer to Table 5-4: Haste: Agility and Evasion Bonuses. 

**Table 5-4: Haste: Agility and Evasion Bonuses** 

|Target's<br>Agility|Evasion Speed (Points)<br>Bonus|
|---|---|
|1-2|0|
|3-8|+1|
|9-14|+2|
|15-20|+3|
|21-26|+4|



## **[ Rune Rope ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=10 meters Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Binds the target with invisible rope Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=Negated effect 

This spell creates an invisible magical rope, with the effect of binding the target. If the target fails to resist, they will be bound by this rope and become completely unable to move. The poor victim will be unable to take any actions. However, since they can still move their mouth, they can speak and use holy magic. Not even an ogre can break this magical rope. 

Note that if the target succeeds on a resistance roll against this spell, it’ll have no effect. When making a check, you may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **7th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Dispel Order ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=21 

Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Instant Effect=Remove spells that enforce commands 

Type=Counters (Negates): All puppet and golem-type magic, _Geas_ , _Command Golem_ , _Quest_ 

Expansion=Final score 

Resist=None 

This spell nullifies the effects of the types of spells that give commands, such as _Quest_ , _Geas_ , etc. It also removes puppet and golem-type magic. 

This spell can also cancel commands given to a golem. Once a golem has had its commands canceled, it becomes neutral and can be given new commands using the 9th level spell _Command Golem_ . However, the final score of commands given during the ancient 

kingdom period is very high, so you'll need a final score of at least 30 or greater to cancel a golem's commands. 

Once this spell fails, you cannot attempt it again until your magic power increases. 

## **[ Telekinesis ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 

## Distance=Within the caster's view 

Area=One person or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Move the target without touching it Type=Focus Expansion=Final score, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

_Telekinesis_ is a spell that allows you to move things using only the power of your consciousness. The target can be an individual or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume. Targets who attempt to resist this spell and fail, or do not attempt to resist, will be moved at the caster's will. Its movement speed is 10 meters per round. 

This spell cannot move only one part of the target. One person, one rock, etc. all have to be moved in one piece, and it's impossible to tear them apart. 

## **[ Teleport ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One person or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Teleports the target Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, target score Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that instantly moves a target (individual or object) to another location. The movement destination is limited to a location that's visible to the caster or a location that's familiar to the caster. This spell will not work if there's an obstacle blocking the movement destination. Only solids greater than a certain size can be obstacles. What amounts to an obstacle depends on the situation, but objects such as desks, chairs, large rocks, etc. can be obstacles. 

78

## **[ Full Potential ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=28 

## Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Increase the three ability scores of dexterity, agility, and strength by 6 Type=Target score, physical ability Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

_Full Potential_ is a spell that enhances the effects of _Physical Enchantment_ and raises potential capabilities of the human body to maximum. The result is the same effect as casting the _Sharpness_ , _Quickness_ and _Strength_ spells of _Physical Enchantment_ all at the same time. In other words, _dexterity_ , _agility_ , and _strength_ all increase by _6_ at the same time. As a result, each ability bonus will be increased by +1, so for the duration, the baseline score of the abilities of each skill related to the increased ability score will also become +1. If you use it in combat, attack power, evasion speed, and bonus damage will all increase, so action order and movement speed will also increase. If the target is expressed as a monster, its attack points, evasion points, and strike points will increase by 1 point, and at the same time its movement speed and action order will also increase by 6. 

You _cannot_ expand this spell's effect (that is, increase ability scores by 12 points, 18 points, etc.). 

## **[ Blade Net ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Entangle the opponent in a magical net, binding their movement. Targets that act against the binding suffer strike power 20 damage 

Type=Target score, damage (Blade-type) Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell entangles the target in a shining silver magical net, binding their actions. At this time, the target can move if they want to against the binding of the net. If a target fails to resist against this 

spell and attempts to act, they will suffer a _-4_ penalty on all success rolls because the net coiled around their body will hinder them. In addition, each thread that forms the magical net is razor sharp, causing the target to suffer strike power 20 damage each round in which they attempt to act. 

If the target successfully resists, when they attempt to act, the penalty on success rolls will only be -2, damage will only be calculated strike power 10, and no criticals will occur. 

Movement and combat, as well as casting spells, all count as having taken an action (using holy magic also counts as having taken an action). If you do not take action, you will not suffer this damage. 

Please note that when making a check, you may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. You can determine the damage by rolling the dice each round your character takes an action. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **[ Bend Bar ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=21 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A bar-shaped object Duration=Instant Effect=Bend a bar-shaped object Type=- 

Expansion=Distance, targets, target’s crosssection (see description) Resist=None 

This is a spell that bends bars. The target bar will bend in the direction desired by the caster, regardless of the elasticity of the material. Since it only targets bar-shaped objects, shields and armor cannot be bent. Most weapons have a bar-like part that can be bent to make them useless. A bar-shaped object is one that’s up to 10 cm thick and has a 

length to thickness ratio of 3 to 1 or greater. 

This magic’s effect cannot work on things that have already had magic cast on them or have life (or have undead life force). 

If you expand the effect by consuming extra mental power, you can bend objects with a thicker bar (crosssectional area). 

## **[ Polymorph ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Permanent (caster's option) Effect=Change the target into another creature 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score 

Resist=Negated effect 

By casting this spell, the caster can turn any target that fails (or does not attempt) to resist into an animal of their choice. The targets of this spell can only be animals and plants created by the hands of the gods, including humans, fae, and youma, and do not include mythical beasts, magical beasts, titans, etc. Since they're not living things, undead and magical creatures are also impossible. Creatures that have already been transformed are also included in this limitation. The target will be completely transformed physically and will be able to use all of the creature's physical abilities after transformation (flying, breathing underwater, etc.). In addition, their memories, intelligence, and soul from before the transformation will be passed on to the new body. 

## **[ Magic Reflection ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=Until the caster falls asleep, or until magic is cast on them 

Effect=Reflects magic cast on the caster back onto the opponent Type=Target score, lost Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

79