## 5.1.12 Ancient Magic List

This spell reflects magic cast on the caster directly back onto their opponent. If magic is cast on the person who casts this spell, that magic will rebound back to the opponent who cast it. At the same time, the effect of _Magic Reflection_ will disappear. 

If your magic has been reflected, you must resist against your own magic yourself. 

However, this can only reflect magic which has an area of effect of _one_ . In the case of magic that affects a space, _Magic Reflection_ has no effect. Also, since the reflection is indiscriminate, even magic that’s _favorable_ towards the caster will be reflected. In addition, spells that nullify magic, such as _Dispel Magic_ , cannot be reflected. 

If a caster using _Magic Reflection_ casts other magic on his or herself, the effect of _Magic Reflection_ will be lost at the same time the new magic is cast. 

## **8th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Illusionary Beast ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Attacks with an illusionary beast that can only be seen by the target Type=Illusion, target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

As the name suggests, this is a spell that creates an illusionary beast to attack the target. In the round in which the spell is cast, an illusionary beast will appear in front of the target, and begin attacking on the next round. This attack can only target the person targeted by the spell. The attack will continue until the illusionary beast itself is defeated, this spell is removed, the duration expires, or the target dies. This illusionary beast can only be seen by the target. 

In order for anyone other than the target to discover the illusion, they must have knowledge of this spell. Sorcerers can always discover it, but those who do 

not must attempt and succeed on a success roll with the sage skill’s _knowledge_ . Its target score is 16. However, even if you cannot discover it, it's possible to determine that the target is being attacked by an invisible monster, so although you cannot attack this monster _directly_ , you can still support the target _indirectly_ (casting an _Enchant Weapon_ spell on the target's weapon, healing their wounds with a _Healing_ spell, etc.). Damage dealt by an illusionary beast is not an illusion, but is actually treated as a reduction in life force. 

## **Illusionary Beast** 

Monster Level=8 

Rarity=16 (However, a sorcerer always knows) Agility=18 Movement=Never leaves the target's side Attack Points=Claw:16 (9)/Claw:16 (9) Strike Points=15 

Evasion Points=17 (10) Defense Points=13 Life Points/Resistance=18/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=-/17 (10) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness 

## **[ Stun Cloud ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=30 meters Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Instant (Paralysis effect lasts 1 hour) 

Effect=Paralyzes the target's body within the area of effect, causing them to lose consciousness Type=Target score, lost Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area Resist=Negated effect 

_Stun Cloud_ turns the air within the area of effect into poison gas. All creatures within the area of effect must attempt to resist this spell. If you fail, your body will become paralyzed and you will lose consciousness at the same time. Those who successfully resist won't receive these effects. Unlike _Sleep Cloud_ , a creature who loses consciousness from this spell cannot be woken up by damage, kicking them or shaking them, they will remain unconscious for one hour. However, if you remove it with _Dispel_ 

_Magic_ , they will regain their consciousness. 

## **[ Force Field ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=32 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Creates an invisible magical barrier around the caster, protecting them from physical attacks 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

This spell is invisible around the caster's body, moreover it creates a magical barrier that changes shape with the caster's movement. This barrier works to reduce damage from attacks such as weapons, etc. The damage it can reduce is 30 points. The caster can also add their own damage reduction to this. As a result, most physical attacks should be nullified, but you will be wounded if your defense roll is _double ones_ , or if you receive _more_ than 30 points of damage. Even if you fall from a very high place or a huge piece of rubble falls on you, you will still be wounded if the damage you receive exceeds 30 points. This spell also prevents attacks from magical weapons. However, it cannot prevent damage from pure magic, such as _Energy Bolt_ or _Fireball_ , nor damage from fire, acid, etc. 

## **[ Lightning Bind ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Capture the target with a net of electricity, which deals strike power 20 damage each round. 

Type=Target score, damage (Electric-type) Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

_Lightning Bind_ is a spell that entangles the target in a net of electricity, completely sealing their movement. Furthermore, you can deal electric shock damage to the target every round. Its strike power is 20. If the target successfully resists, the damage is 

80

reduced (following the rules for damage magic) and the target can move. However, in this case, they will take a -4 penalty to the final score of all success rolls, because they must fight against the pain and binding they receive from the electric net. 

You may only make a resistance roll against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell. You can determine the damage by rolling the dice each round. 

This spell works on targets slightly larger than a human (such as an ogre or a manticore), but has no effect on targets of a larger size than that (such as a dragon or a roc). 

## **[ Wraith Form ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=1 day Effect=Can withdraw from the ethereal body and become a wraith 

Type=Non-removable, lost Expansion=Duration Resist=None 

A caster who casts this spell will be able to separate their spiritual body from their physical body, allowing only their ethereal body to move around freely. This ethereal body is called a wraith. Wraiths are a kind of undead, but they can resume their life activities once they return to their own bodies. If you do not (or cannot) return to your original body after the spell's duration has expired, you will lose complete contact with your body, and must remain adrift for eternity as a wraith. The same applies if your body is destroyed (your life force or life points become 0 or less) while you are a wraith. If the wraith itself is destroyed, the caster dies. In this case, the body becomes nothing more than an empty husk without a soul, so it cannot be brought back to life by any means. 

See p. 219 for wraith details. 

## **9th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Command Golem ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch 

Area=1 golem 

Duration=Permanent 

Effect=You can control and give commands to golems that have not received commands yet 

Type=Target score, non-removable Expansion=Resist=None 

This spell is _not_ a spell that creates golems. It's only a spell that gives _commands_ to a golem. Moreover, the target golem must be in a state where _no_ commands have been given. This spell is ineffective on a golem that's _already_ following a command. Golems in a state without commands are extremely rarely found, but may be found in the ruins of the ancient kingdom. 

## **[ Control Weather ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=Caster 

Area=An area within a 10 kilometer radius of the caster 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Change the weather within the area of effect 

Type=Focus, Target score, non-removable Expansion=Final score, area Resist=None 

This is a spell that can change the weather within its area of effect. Weather changes begin on the round you cast the spell, and the spell is completed in 10 rounds. Even if someone is within the area of effect, they cannot resist this spell. This spell is _non-removable_ , but if two _Control Weather_ spells are cast within the same area of effect, the one with the higher final score will take effect, and the one with the lower final score will be negated. 

Weather you can change to includes sunny, cloudy, rainy, foggy, or snowy. It has nothing to do with the weather, season, etc. before the spell was cast. As the spell ends, the weather will return to its natural state. However, effects caused 

by this spell will remain and cannot be removed. 

Below is a brief description of the extent of the weather. 

_Sunny_ ： The sky within the area of effect will be completely clear of clouds. Depending on the angle of the sun, the sun will shine during the day and the ground will be warm. At night, you’ll be able to see the moon and stars. 

_Cloudy_ ： The sky within the area of effect is covered by clouds, hiding the sun. Since direct sunlight is blocked, the area becomes darker and the temperature on the ground decreases. At night, the moon and stars will be hidden, making it a dark night. 

_Rainy_ ： Rain clouds cover the sky, the conditions will be the same as cloudy. In addition, rain will begin to fall at about 10 mm per hour, wetting the ground. 

_Foggy_ ： Visibility within the area of effect is 5 meters or less for fog. 

_Snowy_ ： Snow clouds cover the sky, the conditions will be the same as cloudy. In addition, snow will begin to fall at about 10 mm per hour. The surrounding temperature will drop to 0°celsius. 

## **[ Disintegrate ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One individual or object up to 1 cubic meter in volume 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Break the target down into the smallest unit of matter, annihilating them Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

Targets who have this spell cast on them and fail to resist will, after a moment of brightness, be broken down into the smallest unit of matter they were composed of, literally disappearing. It's impossible to regenerate a target that has become like this. If it was a living thing, it can never be revived again, and cannot be revived by _Resurrection_ . 

81

Usually it's limited to 1 cubic meter, but by expanding the volume, it's possible to cast it on a larger target. 

## **[ Petrification ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=36 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Petrify your opponent Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

Those who fail to resist this spell, no matter what they're made of, will instantly be turned to stone. Only creatures with natural life (humans, plants, animals, mythical beasts, magical beasts, fae, youma, and daemons) can be targets of this spell, with the exception of magical creatures such as spirits, undead, and golems. A petrified target will cease all life activity until they're released, so they will not age. If it's removed with _Dispel Magic_ , etc., they will be revived in the same state they were before being petrified. However, if a petrified statue is destroyed in the meantime, it will be revived while broken apart at the time the spell is removed, so it will naturally die instantly (or suffer wounds or irreversible injury). 

## **[ Rune Shield ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=36 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Create a barrier that completely protects against magic Type=Target score 

Counters (Overpowers): _Curses_ cast on the caster him or herself, all magic except _non-_ 

_removable_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

This is a spell that creates a magical barrier that glows white around the caster. This barrier has the effect of completely blocking magic from others. You can attempt to remove it with _Dispel Magic_ , but all other possible spells will be blocked by this barrier, and cannot have any effect. However, it cannot stop 

attacks other than magic. During the duration of this spell, the caster can still use other spells, but any spells that also affect the caster will be blocked by the _Rune Shield_ and nullified just the same. Any spell effects that were applied to the caster will also be lost. 

## **10th Level Ancient Magic List** 

## **[ Dimension Gate ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A plane with a 25 meter radius Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Create a dimension gate that connects distant places 

Type=Target score, lost Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell creates a gate between two distant places, allowing you to instantly move to a destination. The gate is a silver disc 5 meters in diameter, which appears on the floor. A disc of the same shape will also appear above the destination. The disc can be penetrated like water, and those who jump into it will jump out of the other disc. 

There is no restriction on the travel distance, but the destination must be a place the caster knows. If the caster knows about the underworld, it's also possible to open a gate to the underworld. 

A normal _Dimension Gate_ lasts for only 3 minutes, but the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom knew the technique for fixing gates semi-permanently, and so used them as a way of moving between distant places or within labyrinths. 

## **[ Death Cloud ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Makes the air within the area of effect into a lethal substance, killing living things instantly 

Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, distance, area Resist=Negated effect 

_Death Cloud_ turns the air within its area of effect into a lethal poison gas. All 

creatures within range must attempt to resist this spell, and if they fail, they will die instantly. If successful, they will suffer no effect. 

## **[ Perfect Cancellation ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One, one object, or a space with a 5 meter radius 

Duration=Instant Effect=Removes the effects of all spells Type=Lost, ritual 

Counters (Negates): All magic other than _Reborn Dragon_ 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets or 

area 

Resist=None 

This spell is a powerful version of _Dispel Magic_ , which removes the effects of _all_ spells. Even spells of the _nonremovable_ or _curse_ type, which cannot be removed by _Dispel Magic_ , will be nullified. However, to remove a spell with a target score, you’ll need a final score accordingly. In addition, only the dragon roar magic _Reborn Dragon_ cannot be removed by this magic. 

## **[ Meteor Strike ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=Instant 

Effect=A meteorite falls from the sky, causing a huge explosion Type=Damage (Explosion-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced Effect 

The fact that there are countless unseen masses of rock floating in the sky is considered a matter of course among sages. These rocks fall to the ground at a rate of about once every hundred years. These rocks floating in the sky are called meteorites. The spell _Meteor Strike_ is a spell that allows the caster to control a meteorite (a very small one) at will, and make it fall to the ground. The meteorite will fall the moment you finish the spell, causing a large explosion. Targets within the area of effect will be hit by shockwaves and fragments of the meteorite, suffering strike power 50 

82