# 5.1.13 Spirit Magic and the Shaman Skill

damage. Of course, its destructive power would be enough to destroy buildings and ramparts. 

Please note that this spell cannot be used unless you can see the sky (it has no effect if used inside a cave or dungeon). 

## **5.1.13** 

## **Spirit Magic and the Shaman Skill** 

**Silent spirit** are runes used to communicate with spirits and draw out the power controlled by those spirits. The skill for using spirit magic is called the _shaman skill_ , and those who have this skill are called _shamans_ . The shaman skill allows you to use all basic abilities and spirit magic up to the caster's skill level. 

## **Restrictions on Using 5.1.13.1 Spirit Magic** 

The basic rules for casting magic are the same, but the following conditions are required in order to use the shaman skill. 

   1. Must not wear metal armor 

   2. Both hands must not be full 

3. The **spirit power** corresponding 

to the spell must be working 

#1 is due to the spirits’ characteristic disdain for metal. However, only silver and mithril silver are excluded from this subject. This is because silver is a metal that also exists in the spirit world and has inherently magical power. In particular, mithril silver is a metal that barely exists in the material world and has strong magical powers. This is why silver weapons can be used against monsters that are only harmed by magic weapons, but metals that are not silver or mithril silver will still inhibit spirit magic, even if they are endowed with magical power. 

#2 is because the procedure for casting spells requires the use of one hand. Therefore, you must not wear clothing or armor that severely restricts movement of your arms, and your 

fingers must be completely free. You can use either your left or right arm to cast a spell. You may hold a two-handed weapon in only _one_ hand while using the _remaining_ hand to use spirit magic, but if you're armed with a weapon in _one_ hand and a shield in the _other_ , then unless you drop the weapon or shield on the ground or put one away, you _cannot_ use spirit magic. 

#3 is ultimately decided by the game master, but below are some guidelines for where spirit power can be found at work. 

## ⬤ **Wind Spirits** 

It must be in a place where the wind blows in its natural state. The spirit power of wind does not work inside buildings, deep caves, or even underground passages. 

## ⬤ **Earth Spirits** 

This is a power that’s at work in places where the ground is exposed or underground. Particularly strong spirit power is at work in the mountains. Since the power of water spirits is strong on the ocean floor and the bottoms of lakes, the spirit power of earth does not work there. Likewise, this spirit power does not work on the floors of buildings (whether they're stone or wood). 

## ⬤ **Water Spirits** 

The spirit power of water is at work wherever there is water, such as the ocean or a lake. Even if you carry water in a water bottle, etc., if you open the lid, the spirit power will work. 

## ⬤ **Fire Spirits** 

This spirit power is at work wherever there’s fire burning. You can also use fire from a torch you're carrying with you. 

## ⬤ **Ice Spirits** 

This spirit power is at work wherever there is snow or ice. 

## ⬤ **Mind Spirits** 

This spirit power is at work wherever there are living things with functioning minds. Of course if the caster him or herself is like that, there's no problem. Some of these types of spirits include 

those that control the nature of the mind, and those that control fluctuation of emotions. It's said that if one emotion has too much of an outburst, it can cause phenomena such as alienation or complete loss of functions of other spirits, which can lead to mental disorders. 

## ⬤ **Plant Spirits** 

Very strong power is at work in forests, etc. but in places where plants and trees grow, they're only at work in small amounts. 

## ⬤ **Other Spirits** 

These are the spirits that control light, darkness, and life. Explanations of where these are at work can be found under each individual spell. 

## **Basic Abilities of the 5.1.13.2 Shaman Skill** 

Shamans have the following basic abilities, which they can use without any restrictions. 

## 《 **Infravision** 》 

Salamander and frau control fire and ice, as well as heat and cold. Infravision is the ability to see things dimly even in the dark and find places where the temperature is unusually different compared to the surrounding area, by sensing the workings of these spirits. However, you cannot see colors at all. 

## 《 **Sense Aura** 》 

This ability is used to know what kind of spirit power is at work in your surroundings. You cannot use spells that belong to a specific spirit in places where that spirit power is not at work. When a player declares that they will use this ability, the game master must tell the player what spirit power is at work in that location. 

Since there are spirits of life and spirits of undeath (which control negative life force), the sense aura ability can be used to distinguish between living things and undead. Ordinary corpses and monsters created by magic (magical 

83