## **13.2.6** 

## **Mythical Beasts and Magical Beasts** 

## **[ Satyr ]** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=14 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Horns: 9 (2) 

Strike Points=9 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=18/12 (5) Special Abilities=Manipulate emotions with a flute (Resist target score=10) Habitat=Forests Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Satyrs are a forest-dwelling race with the upper body of a hairy human, pointed ears, short horns sprouting from their heads, and the lower body of a goat. Their staple food is nuts and berries, they have gentle personalities, they're fond of alcohol, music, and women, and they love festivities. They don't like fighting and will run away if danger approaches. Female satyrs are called she-satyrs. 

They always carry a flute and can manipulate human emotions with their melodies. Humans who hear the satyr's flute may suddenly become frightened and run away, get excited and start dancing, or become lewd and start taking off their clothes. To resist this, you must succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 10. 

## **[ Ceiling Hanger ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=14 Agility=12 Movement Speed=6 Frequency=Rare Number=One Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Right arm:11 (4)/Left arm:10 (3) 

Strike Points=Special/5 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=14 /11(4) Mental Points/Resistance=11/10(3) Special Abilities=Surprise attack (Sense target score=12) 

Strangle 

Sleepless Habitat=Underground labyrinths Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

A ceiling hanger is a magical beast with arms of different sizes on its left and right sides. Its lower body is made of a glue-like substance that expands and contracts, and it's usually about 1 meter long. By sticking with this lower body, a ceiling hanger can also move along walls and ceilings. When attacking prey, this lower body stretches, reaching a length of 6 meters. Its body color is gray, but like a chameleon, it has the ability to assimilate into the color of its surroundings. 

Ceiling hangers primarily attack sleeping prey, but when hungry they may attack active prey as well. In addition to its protective color, it also stretches its body out from the ceiling in an instant to attack, so it has a high potential for surprise attacks. Rangers have a chance to notice this surprise attack with their _sense danger_ ability. To do so, you must succeed on a success toll against target score 12 using _ranger skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. Failure will result in a surprise attack and the targeted character will suffer a -4 penalty to evasion. 

A ceiling hanger's right hand has an extremely enlarged thumb, while conversely, the other four fingers are integrated into a scissor shape, allowing it to strangle its prey. When a ceiling hanger catches its prey, it will pull them up to the ceiling on the next round and attempt to choke the opponent to death. At the same time, the left arm makes a normal attack (strike) on the prey. A hanging character cannot breathe, nor even cast spells. Also, evading the left arm’s attack incurs a -2 penalty. 

Strangling has strike power 0 and bonus damage 6 when making a damage check. Non-metal armor and ring mail have no effect against this damage, and points can only be reduced by adventurer level. Characters wearing metal armor (other than ring mail) will not suffer any damage. Regardless of 

damage or armor, once _character's life force_ rounds have elapsed, the character will suffocate and fall unconscious (life force 0). From then on, in each round, a death check must be made when applying damage (even if it's 0). 

Ceiling hangers with prey suspended from the ceiling cannot be reached by melee weapons, so it’ll be extremely difficult to provide support to a suspended character. 

## **[ Harpy ]** 

Harpies are carnivorous creatures with the head and chest of a human female, and the rest of its body is that of a bird. Harpies have two races, deela and furia. 

## **Deela** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=13 Agility=16 Movement Speed=6/30 (air) Number=Several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Talons: 11 (4) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=9/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Special Abilities=Charm by singing (Resist target score=10) Habitat=Coasts Languages=Harpy, regional Perception=Five senses 

Deelas live on the coast, are beautiful, and can speak. They are neutral toward humans. Deelas mate with human males and lay eggs. At this time, deelas use the ability to _charm_ by singing. Anyone who hears a deela's song must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 10. If you fail, you will be charmed and must do what the deela tells you to do. 

## **Deela King** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=18 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=6/30 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Talons:11 (4) Strike Points=9 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) 

188 

Mental Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Coasts 

Languages=Harpy, regional Perception=Five senses 

Usually, only female individuals are born among harpies. However, very rarely a male is born. A flock blessed with a male can produce offspring without the use of a human male, so that male is made their king. In such groups, they do not try to charm humans and avoid interaction as much as possible, because they do not need to use humans and do not want their king's existence to be known. 

Male harpies, which are rare, are slightly larger than the usual females. They also do not have the ability to _charm_ by singing. 

## **Furia** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=13 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=6/30 (air) Number=Several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Talons: 11 (4) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=8/10 (3) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Mountains Languages=Harpy Perception=Five senses 

Furia live in mountainous areas, are ugly, have low intellect, and are always aggressive. Furia mate with male eagles and may be encountered along with them. They have no special abilities. 

## **[ Hippocampus ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=8/20 (water) Number=One to dozens 

Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Leg: 11 (4) Strike Points=9 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=20/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Special Abilities=Water adaptation 

Habitat=Seas Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

It's a horse that lives in the sea, the lower half of its body is that of a fish. Its front legs have fins instead of hooves, and it has no hind legs. They can move around quickly underwater, but once on land they suffer a -4 penalty to attack and evasion. 

Mermen have tamed the hippocampus and use them as riding horses. 

## **[ Medusa ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Snakes (all engaged): 10 (3) Strike Points=7+poison 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=18/12 (5) Special Abilities=Petrify (Resist target score=10) 

Poison (Toxicity score 10, strike power 10, bonus damage 3) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Ruins, underground labyrinths Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

Medusa is a magical beast that takes the form of a human woman, with dozens of snakes growing out of  her head instead of hair, and a face with the magical power to petrify humans. They dwell mainly in ruins and underground labyrinths, and find wicked pleasure in turning visitors into stone statues. Anyone who encounters a medusa must succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 10 or they will instantly be turned into a stone statue. You can avoid being petrified by fighting with your eyes closed or your face turned away, but in such a state you will suffer a -4 penalty to your attack power and evasion speed. Also, you cannot cast magic on the medusa in these states. Mirrors do not reflect a medusa's magic. Therefore, you can fight while looking at a medusa's reflection in a mirror. In this 

case, the penalty to attack power and evasion speed is only -2. Conversely, holding a mirror up to a medusa is completely ineffective. 

A medusa uses the snakes on her head to attack. A medusa has countless snakes (hair), and anyone who engages with a medusa in melee is exposed to these snakes' attacks. The snakes are poisonous, and anyone dealt damage by the snakes' attacks must immediately make a life force resistance roll against target score 10. If you fail, you immediately suffer damage resulting from a strike power 10 strike roll plus bonus damage 3. This damage can be reduced by adventurer level. If the resistance roll is successful, no poison damage is sustained. 

Even if a medusa is killed, the magical power remains in her head for a while. It is possible to put the severed head of a Medusa in a bag, then show it to an enemy in combat to turn them to stone, but it must be used carefully, as there is a risk of it turning your allies to stone as well. The magical power in the head will disappear in about one week. 

## **[ Androscorpio ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=14 

Agility=17 Movement Speed=17 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:11 (4)/Tail:11 (4) Strike Points=10/12+poison Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=17/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=18/13 (6) Special Abilities=3rd level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5) Poison (Toxicity score 11, illusion, lasts 1 hour) 

Habitat=Deserts 

Languages=Regional, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

Androscorpio is a mythical beast that lives in the desert, with the upper body of a handsome young man and the lower body of a brightly colored scorpion. Like humans, there are good androscorpios, and there are evil androscorpios. They 

189 

can use spirit magic, and their shaman skill level is 3. 

In combat, an androscorpio uses a sword in his hand, but he can also attack with his tail at the same time. The stinger at the tip of his tail contains a hallucinogenic poison (toxicity score 11). Those wounded by a tail attack and fail a life force resistance roll will experience hallucinations starting on the next round. The enemy's appearance can change, or it can appear as multiple . This symptom lasts for one hour, during which time the victim suffers a -4 penalty on all success rolls. 

## **[ Centaur ]** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=9 Agility=14 Movement Speed=30 Number=Several to around ten Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Spear:10 (3)/Heel:10 (3) Strike Points=12/12 Attack Points=Bow:11 (4) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=19/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=13/12 (5) Special Abilities=4th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) rarely Habitat=Meadows Languages=Centaurian Perception=Five senses 

Centaurs are a meadow-dwelling race that are human from the waist up and horse from the waist down. They do not have permanent homes, but live as hunters while traveling in groups, and their language and lifestyle are similar to those of humans, though their culture is somewhat less advanced. 

They do not have a permanent place of residence and live a hunting lifestyle while traveling in groups, and although their level of culture is somewhat low, their language and lifestyle are similar to those of humans. They are not interested in money, but aside from that,  if you bring them a suitable gift, you may be able to form a friendship. 

They use bows and arrows or spears as weapons. In melee combat, a centaur 

can attack a single target with the weapon in its hand and its heel at the same time. 

It is said that there are very rare centaurs who have very advanced knowledge and can use magic. 

## **[ Cockatrice ]** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=15 Agility=11 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Beak:11 (4) Strike Points=9+petrify Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=16/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=8/11 (4) Special Abilities=Petrify (Resist target score=11) 

Not affected by poison and illness 

Sleepless 

Habitat=Wilderness 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

A cockatrice is a flightless bird about the size of a human with the legs and tail of a lizard. Its beak has the ability to petrify living creatures, and anyone hit by a cockatrice (regardless of whether they're dealt damage or not) must make a life force resistance roll against target score 11. If you fail, you will instantly turn to stone. 

Cockatrices mainly live in the wilderness and feed on an herb called henruda. It’s the only plant that does not turn to stone when touched by a cockatrice's beak. If you find and eat henruda in advance, you can neutralize the cockatrice's magical power and prevent being petrified. This herb is also effective against medusa and basilisk, but its drawback is that it cannot be stored and its effect only lasts for one day. 

## **[ Scylla ]** 

Monster Level=4 Rarity=13 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12/12 (water) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs (6 times):11 (4) 

## Strike Points=12 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=18/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=15/12 (5) Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Water 

Languages=Regional, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

Scylla is a beautiful woman from the waist up, but six serpent heads and 12 octopus tentacles grow from her lower body. They are amphibious and can move freely on land, but mainly prefer to live in water. Their personality is extremely wicked, often luring men with only their upper bodies above the water, then dragging them underwater to kill them. 

When in combat, a scylla can attack different targets at the same time with its six heads. However, she can only attack a single target three times in one round. Scylla can also use spirit magic. Her shaman skill level is 4 and her magic intensity is 13 (magic power 6). 

## **[ Chimera ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=13 

Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Snake's fangs:12 (5) Strike Points=15/13+poison Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=24/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=18/14 (7) Special Abilities=5th level dark magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=14/7) 

Poison (Toxicity score 12, speech impediment, lasts 1 day) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Habitat=Mountain recesses 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

A chimera has a black lion for the front half of its body and a demonic black goat for the rear half. Its tail is a snake and a goat's head grows out of its back. Known to be extremely ferocious, they are impossible to defeat except by 

190 

the very bravest. Fortunately, they live deep in the mountains, their fertility is weak due to their unnatural composition, and their numbers are small, so they’re rarely encountered. 

In combat, a Chimera can attack two targets at the same time, using its lion fangs and the snake fangs at the tip of its tail. It cannot attack the same target twice in one turn. The snake's fangs contain a neurotoxin that paralyzes the speech center, rendering those affected unable to speak or cast spells for one day. The black goat head on its back can also cast dark magic up to 5th level. 

## **[ Twintail Cat ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=13 Agility=18 Movement Speed=15 Number=One 

Frequency=Rare (Kaios Island)/Very Rare (Other) Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs: 12 (5)/Claw: 13(6)/ Claw: 13 (6) Strike Points=8/7/7 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=12/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=5th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=15/8) 

5th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=15/8) Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Meadows, provided it’s Kaios Island (Islands of Azarn) mostly Languages=Regional, fairy, low ancient, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (illumination, infravision) 

Twintailed cats look like normal black cats, except for the fact that they have two tails. However, it is a true mythical beast that has an intellect greater than humans and can also use magic. They will occasionally meddle with humans on a whim, but rarely engage beyond light teasing. They believe that straightforward thinking is extremely dangerous. Therefore, when they communicate something, they say it in a mysterious way, as if they are trying to bewilder the person they're talking to. Although extremely rare, friendships 

may form between humans and twintail cats. If this happens, they will never betray their friends. 

They can use ancient magic and spirit magic, but they are especially fond of illusions and magic that affects the mind. Twintail Cats may have rare magical items related to these kinds of magic. 

Twintail cats are the rulers and protectors of the cats of Kaios Island (the Islands of Azarn). All cats follow their commands. However, they rarely give commands, as they value the spirit of self-reliance that is characteristic of the cat family. When a situation beyond their control arises, they skillfully guide and encourage other races to act voluntarily in accordance with their goals. Also, magical beasts do not follow their orders. 

## **[ Telchines ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=14 Agility=12 Movement Speed=10/10 (water) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon:11 (4)/Tail:12 (5) Strike Points=12/11 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=5th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=15/8) 

Water adaptation Habitat=Secluded coasts Languages=Merman, low ancient Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Telchines has the upper body of a human male, but his lower body has two large snake tails instead of legs. They live quietly on the coast, far from human villages, and their ecology is shrouded in mystery. Just like humans, there are good telchines and there are evil telchines. All of them have deep knowledge of ancient magic and poisons, and can also cast ancient magic. 

When in danger, telchines will use a _Shape Change_ spell to take on the form of a titan or an ugly beast to intimidate their opponents. When fighting in its true 

form, it uses a trident in its hand along with its two tails. 

## **[ Hippogriff ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=13 Agility=15 Movement Speed=10/40 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Talon:13 (6)/Talon:13 (6)/Beak:12 (5) Strike Points=13/13/12 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=22/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=10/12 (5) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Meadows Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The hippogriff is said to have been born after a griffon (see p. 193) attacked a mare. A flying mythical beast, the front half of its body is an eagle and the back half is a horse. They live in grasslands and feed on small herbivores. Despite their appearance, they’re not very ferocious and will not attack humans unless they are very hungry. If you catch one as a child and tame it, you can even use it as a riding horse. 

## **[ Pegasus ]** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=10 Agility=12 Movement Speed=30/40 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Heel:11 (4) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=15/13 (6) Special Abilities=Not affected by poison and illness 

Habitat=Steep mountains, meadows Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

Pegasus is a winged white horse that can fly. In the wild, Pegasus live on steep mountains and come down to the meadows at the foot of the mountains to feed on grass. Although it’s difficult to capture a pegasus alive, it’s even more difficult to tame. This is because pegasus are proud animals, even more so than 

191 

humans, and would rather die than be enslaved. However, if a human is recognized as a true hero, a pegasus will willingly let them ride on its back. 

## **[ Head Displacer ]** 

## Monster Level=5 

## Rarity=15 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=18 (air) Frequency=Very Rare Number=One Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Tentacles (strangle) x 4:12 (5)/Fangs:12 (5) Strike Points=8 x 4/10 

Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=18 (14/7) Mental Points/Resistance=15 (13/6) Special Abilities=5th level dark magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=14/7) rarely 

Strangling Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=Low ancient 

Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

Head displacers have the ability to devour large numbers of humans without being noticed. It is said among the sages that they may have been created primarily for attacking castles during war. 

The head displacer looks like a severed human head with four vermillion tentacles growing out of its neck. When it remains alone, it moves by floating in the air. When it finds prey (humans), it'll first attack with its tentacles. The tentacles are usually about 15 cm long, but can extend up to 4 meters. If a tentacle attack hits, resolve it as strangling (see p. 236). If all 4 tentacles entangle its opponent, it'll also attack with its fangs. If the opponent becomes disabled, it'll devour their head and place itself in the head's position. It'll then embed its tentacles inside its prey's body and begin to act as if it were a living person. Then it’ll aim to catch new prey by surprise and attack it. A head displacer itself has the ability to speak low ancient, but cannot use any of its host's (?) skills. Its movements are awkward, and naturally, after several days since its prey was slain, the body 

will begin to decompose and a putrid odor will linger in the air. 

If a character is in danger of a surprise attack by a head displacer, a character with the ranger skill may be able to notice it due to their _sense danger_ ability. Make a success roll against target score 15 using _ranger skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score, and if you succeed, you’ll be able to sense it, but if you fail, you’ll be hit by the surprise attack. If the tentacles are not clear, those with the sage skill cannot use the _monster check_ ability. 

If the head displacer's tentacles have entangled your character, refer to the rules for _grappling_ (see p. 265) to attack them. 

A head displacer may use dark magic on very rare occasions. Its magic intensity is 14 (magic power 7). 

## **[ Lamia ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=15 Agility=9 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Strangle:13 (6) Strike Points=11 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) 