Special Abilities=4th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) Needs bloodsucking to 

maintain life points 

Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional, low ancient Perception=Five senses 

A lamia is a large snake with the upper body of a beautiful woman and a rainbow-colored lower body, 7 to 8 meters long. Although she is well versed in ancient magic, she doesn't really like to use spells that attack her enemies directly, mainly using illusions and transformations to bewitch them. 

Lamia cannot survive without sucking fresh blood from young humans, so they often use a _Shape Change_ spell to disguise themselves as human girls, deceive young people into becoming their lovers, and then secretly suck their 

blood in the middle of the night. Whenever they suck blood, they must return to their original form. A lamia that does not suck blood at least once per day will lose 1 life point, and if she does not suck blood for 20 days, she will starve to death. Those who have their blood sucked will lose life points, and the lamia will recover that same amount of life points. Usually only 1 point worth of blood is needed per day. With this amount of damage, a healthy young person will only feel mild fatigue and should recover quickly. There are some who have been living with lamia for years without even realizing it. 

Lamia are not necessarily wicked, and some of them seem to be kindhearted. Since they cannot survive without depending on humans, they usually live quietly in villages and towns, and you’re unlikely to encounter them outdoors or in labyrinths. 

## **[ Lizardman ]** 

Lizardmen are broadly sorted into two types: noble and slave. 

The overwhelming majority are slaves. Slaves have low intellect and cannot use magic. Most lizardman villages consist of only slaves, with populations ranging from about 20 to 50. These communities do not have a very complex social life and are unproductive, simply catching and eating fish from nearby lakes and rivers. The only reason they form groups is for protection from foreign enemies and for ease of reproduction. 

Nobles are far superior to slaves in both physique and intellect, and they can also use magic (dragon roar magic). The mixed community of noble lizardmen is rarely seen by humans, so the exact facts are unknown, but it is said to be several times the size of the slave-only community and have a great difference in function. 

The magic used by noble lizardmen is said to be dragon roar magic. Although the _Witch_ of Orphan Laverna assumed that the lizardman family was closely 

192 

related to dragons and avoided premature classification, it was precisely because of this reason that later sages classified them as a type of mythical or magical beast. 

## **Slave** 

Monster Level=8 Rarity=10 Agility=18 Movement Speed=10/10 (water) Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=16/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=10/9 (2) Special Abilities=Water adaptation Habitat=Lakes, river coasts Languages=Lizardman Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

## **Noble** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=15 Agility=14 Movement Speed=10/10 (water) Number=One to several Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 13 (6) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=5th level dragon roar magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=14/7) 

Water adaptation 

Habitat=Swamps Languages=Lizardman Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

The noble lizardman is a far superior species to the slave lizardman. The data given here is for what’s said to be _average_ , but there are great individual differences, and some are said to have dragon roar magic ability of nearly 10th level. 

## **[ Griffon ]** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=6/40 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Talon:14 (7)/Talon:14 (7)/ Beak:13 (6) Strike Points=15/15/15 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=26/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=14/14 (7) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Steep mountains Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The griffon is a magical beast with the body of a lion, the head of an eagle, and the wings of an eagle, and it can fly. They have a strange habit of collecting shiny things, and a large amount of gold, silver, and jewels are stored in a griffon's cave on the cliff. They mainly feed on small animals and do not attack humans unnecessarily, but if an adventurer is ostentatiously wearing jewelry, they may attack in order to steal it. 

## **[ Manticore ]** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=12 Agility=10 Movement Speed=21 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Hostile Attack Points=Fangs:13 (6)/Needle:13 (6) Strike Points=15/17+poison Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=23/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=18/15 (8) Special Abilities=5th level dark magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=15/8) 

Poison (Toxicity score 13, death in 

1 hour) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Deserts, Underground labyrinths Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

A manticore has the body of a lion, the tail of a scorpion, the wings of a bat, and the face of an old man. They have an extremely long life span and accumulate a great deal of knowledge. While the 

sphinx (see p. 194) is the guardian of true knowledge, the manticore is said to be the guardian of wicked knowledge. Many are followers of Phalaris, and their dark priest skill is 5th level. 

In combat, a manticore can attack separate targets at the same time with its lion fangs and scorpion tail (it can also attack the same target twice). The stinger at the tip of its tail is highly poisonous. Those dealt damage by the tail attack must make a life force resistance roll against target score 13. Those who fail will become paralyzed and draw their last breath after one hour. 

## **[ Minotaur ]** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=12 

Agility=10 Movement Speed=15 Number=One Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Two-handed ax: 13 (6) Strike Points=16 Attack Points=Strangle:15 (8) Strike Points=14 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=25/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=10/13 (6) Special Abilities=Strangling Habitat=Caves, underground labyrinths Languages=Minotaur Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

The minotaur, with a strong human body and the head of a bull, is an extremely brutal creature. They are carnivorous, especially fond of human flesh, and when they are hungry, they will sometimes come out and attack nearby villages. To prevent such calamities, rural villages will often hold rituals in which young girls are sacrificed to the minotaur. If the minotaur is hungry, it’ll eat the sacrifice immediately, but if it has other food, it’ll keep her alive for a while and use her for other pleasures. With that being said, all minotaurs are male, so they must use human women to produce offspring. 

Minotaurs primarily use a giant ax as a weapon, but when fighting barehanded, they will attempt to strangle their opponent to death with both arms. For more information, please refer to 

193 

strangling under 13.6: Handling Monster Special Abilities (see p. 235). 

## **[ Unicorn ]** 

Monster Level=6 

Rarity=10 Agility=15 Movement Speed=30 Number=One to several 

Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral to friendly Attack Points=Horn:12 (5)/Heel:12 (5) Strike Points=17/16 

Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=25/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=20/15 (8) 

Special Abilities=6th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=16/9) 10th level healing-type spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=20/13) 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Deep in the woods, rarely seen outside _Unicorn Woods_ 

Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

A unicorn looks like a white horse with a long spiral horn growing from its head. 

Unicorns have high intellect and can communicate in silent spirit, but will only trust human (or elf or half-elf) virgin girls. Even in the unfortunate case of a fight, a unicorn will not do anything that would harm a human maiden. However, if anyone other than the maiden tries to touch it, the unicorn will issue a warning, and if you still do not listen, it’ll get angry and attack. 

Unicorns are said to be deeply connected to the unknown spirit of life. They have an unlimited life span and are never affected by illness or poison. 

A unicorn's horn has great healing abilities, allowing them to use magic related to the spirit of life, such as _Healing_ and _Restore Health_ . At this time, their shaman skill is 10th level. Unicorns can also use spirit magic unrelated to the spirit of life, but at this time their shaman skill is only 6th level. If a unicorn runs out of mental points, its horn will wear out and crumble away, leaving not a trace behind. 

A unicorn's horn can be cut off, allowing others to use magic related to 

the spirit of life. For this reason, unicorn horns are sometimes traded as magical items. The user does not have to be a shaman or a woman, and may also wear metal armor. A horn has a reserve of mental points equal to _the unicorn's mental points when cut off x 10_ , and when you use magic, the base mental power cost of each is directly subtracted from this mental point reserve. If magic power is required, calculate it as 10. The reserve mental points cannot be recovered, and once they are used up, the horn will wear out and crumble away. 

If a unicorn loses its horn due to overuse of magic or it being cut off, it will never grow back again. They will no longer be able to use magic at all, and will be affected by illness, poison, etc. Eventually they will reach the end of their life span and die. 

Currently, unicorns are known to live in large numbers in the _Unicorn Woods_ of Ramliearth, but they are almost extinct outside of that area. Ramliearth has deployed a forest guard regiment and is working as an entire nation to protect these mythical beasts. In addition, the group of druids who protect the forest also have great power, keeping it out of reach of potential poachers. 

## **[ Lynx ]** 

## Monster Level=6 

Rarity=12 Agility=19 Movement Speed=20 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fangs:13 (6)/Claw:14 (7)/ Claw:14 (7) Strike Points=15/14/14 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=22/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=16/14 (7) 

Special Abilities=Clairvoyance (within 100 meters) 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Countryside, woods 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

A lynx is a large cat-like creature about 3 meters long that lives in mountains and forests. Its body fur shines yellow to gold in color. Although carnivorous, they mainly feed on small 

animals and will not attack human-sized creatures unless they are extremely hungry. 

Rather, it is humans who hunt the lynx. This is because the lynx has a small amber stone called _lignia stone_ in its body, and this stone is a cure-all for illnesses that affect the mind. 

However, the lynx has a sharp clairvoyance ability, and if something approaches within a 100 meter radius, it can quickly spot it, even if it’s lurking in the shadows. Therefore, it's very difficult to approach a lynx without being noticed. 

## **[ Sphinx ]** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=18/30 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Claw:15 (8)/Claw:15 (8) Strike Points=16/16 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=11 Life Points/Resistance=24/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=20/16 (9) Special Abilities=5th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=15/8) Tell riddles 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Ruins, underground labyrinths Languages=Regional, low ancient Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

The sphinx has the body of a lion with the wings of an eagle and a beautiful human-like face. They have an extremely long lifespan and have accumulated a great deal of knowledge. Although they can cast ancient magic, they will not use magic recklessly or challenge you to a fight unless something really bad happens. 

The sphinx is said to be a mythical beast created by the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom to protect true knowledge, and to prevent lost ancient magic spell books and valuable magical items from falling into the hands of fools. If approached in a friendly manner, the sphinx may play a game of riddles to determine the intelligence of their opponent. The sphinx will only reveal its 

194 

secrets to those it deems to be truly wise and right-minded. 

## **[ Wyvern ]** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=10 Agility=18 Movement Speed=8/35 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:14 (7)/Talon:15 (8)/ Talon:15 (8)/Tail:14 (7) Strike Points=17/16/16/16+poison Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=11 Life Points/Resistance=25/17 (10) Special Abilities=Poison (Toxicity score 14, strike power 20, bonus damage 7) Habitat=Deserts, forests, mountains, etc. Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Wyverns are said to be one of the subspecies of dragons. They are over 10 meters long and use their large wings to fly, but they have no front legs. Since they don't choose where they live, they are feared throughout Alecrast. Unlike dragons, they have low intellect, so they cannot cast spells, nor can they breathe fire. 

Wyverns have highly poisonous stingers at the tips of their tails. Anyone dealt damage by a wyvern's tail attack must immediately make a life force resistance roll against  target score 14. If you fail, the poison deals damage resulting from a strike power 20 strike roll plus bonus damage 7. If you succeed, the strike power will only be 10. This damage can be reduced by adventurer level. 

## **[ Basilisk ]** 

## Monster Level=8 

Rarity=9 Agility=12 Movement Speed=10 Number=Solo Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:15 (8) Strike Points=18 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=25/18 (11) Mental Points/Resistance=12/16 (9) Special Abilities=Gaze (Resist target score=15, petrifying, once every 2 rounds) 

Poison blood (Toxicity score 15, strike power 10, bonus damage 8) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Deserts 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

A basilisk is a large lizard, about 10 meters long, with a chicken's comb on its head and eight legs. In normal combat, it’ll try to bite its enemy to death with its fangs, but if it realizes that it’s at a disadvantage, it’ll attack with its petrifying gaze. 

Its gaze can only be used once every two rounds, cannot be used at the same time as its fangs, and can only aim at one target. Those gazed at by the basilisk must succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 15, or they will instantly turn to stone. 

You can attempt to use a large mirror (at least the size of a small shield) to catch the basilisk's gaze and reflect it back to turn the basilisk into stone. In that case, if a character attains a final score of 19 or greater on a resistance roll against petrification, they will be able to reflect it back at the basilisk. If this happens, the basilisk will automatically be petrified. 

Basilisks also have a powerful poison in their blood. Weapons that deal damage to a basilisk will be soaked with the blood and become highly poisonous. Anyone holding a weapon with basilisk blood on it must make a life force resistance roll against target score 15 each round, and if they fail, they will suffer damage resulting from a strike power 10 strike roll plus bonus damage 8. If the resistance roll is successful, the strike force becomes 0. This damage can only be reduced by adventurer level. 

## **Small Basilisk** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=10 Agility=12 Movement Speed=7 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 

Life Points/Resistance=19/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=9/12 (5) Special Ability=Gaze (Resist target score=15, petrifying, once every 2 rounds) 

Poison blood (Toxicity score 15, strike power 10, bonus damage 8) Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Deserts 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

This is a small species of basilisk. Although they’re small, their petrifying gaze and poisonous blood are just as powerful as those of the larger species. 

## **[ Sea Dragon ]** 

## Monster Level=8 

Rarity=18 

Agility=13 Movement Speed=8/14 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fangs:15 (8)/Tail:15 (8)/ Strangle:17 (10) Strike Points=19/18/17 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=35/19 (12) Mental Points/Resistance=12/16 (9) Special Abilities=Strangling 

Water adaptation 

## Habitat=Seas 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

It is said that the sea monster, the sea dragon, is a creature that evolved from a dragon to adapt to living in the water, but this is not known for sure. Its face looks like that of a dragon, but its body is long and slender and has no wings, making it more like a snake. At a total of 30 meters long, it is feared by sailors along with the giant octopus (see p. 212). 

A sea dragon can attack with its fangs and tail, and at the same time, it can also wrap its long body around its opponent and perform a strangling attack (see p. 236). Even a large ship can sink within minutes if it's ensnared by a sea dragon. 

195 

## **[ Wyrm ]** 

## Monster Level=8 

## Rarity=18 

Agility=12 Movement Speed=35 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:15 (8)/Tail:15 (8) Strike Points=18/17 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=11 Life Points/Resistance=25/18 (11) Mental Points/Resistance=16/16 (9) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Steep mountains that humans can't pass through Languages=Lizardman Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

A wyrm has the appearance of a large snake, with a body over 15 meters long, and bat-like wings. Its head resembles that of a dragon or wyvern, but it has no legs at all. They have human-like intellect and can speak lizardman, but they do not have the ability to use magic. 

Wyrms are highly territorial, and when other wyrms or giant creatures enter their territory, which is a radius of about 20 kilometers, they will immediately try to drive them out or they may approach them to eat them as food. 

## **[ Buckbaird ]** 

## Monster Level=9 

Rarity=15 

Agility=11 Movement Speed=15 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Ram:17 (10) Strike Points=18 Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=27/19 (12) Mental Points/Resistance=17/17 (10) Special Abilities=Ray (Resist target score=16, one of paralysis/hypnosis/freeze/ brainwashing/metal destruction) 

Not affected by poison and illness 

Sleepless 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=Low ancient Perception=Pseudo 

Among the Magical Beasts created by the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom, buckbairds are especially bizarre. It’s a giant eyeball about one and a half meters in diameter, covered in long black hair, and it somehow floats in the air. There 

seem to be several subspecies, and some have been seen with antennae and short limbs. They are only found in underground labyrinths, but what they eat and how they reproduce is a complete mystery. 

In combat, a buckbaird uses five different types of rays. The game master should roll 1D to determine which ray the buckbaird fires (or if it attempts to ram). The ray can only affect one target. Those targeted by the ray will be unaffected if they succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 16, but will be seriously affected if they fail. This ray cannot affect the buckbaird itself, even if it's reflected using a mirror, etc. 

## **1. Paralysis Ray** 

You will be paralyzed for 6 rounds. 

## **2. Hypnosis Ray** 

You will fall asleep. This is considered natural sleep. 

## **3. Freeze Ray** 

You will freeze instantly and enter a state of suspended animation. Treat this the same way as the spirit magic Ice Coffin (see p. 94). 

## **4. Brainwashing Ray** 

You will think the buckbaird is your ally and attack your allies. This effect lasts 18 rounds. Treat this the same way as magic that belongs to _mind_ . 

## **5. Metal Destruction Ray** 

Destroys metal weapons and armor you are wearing. Magical weapons and armor are not affected. This ray cannot be resisted. 

## **6. No firing** 

It will attack without firing a ray. 

## **[ Hydra ]** 

Monster Level=10 Rarity=13 Agility=9 Movement Speed=12/20 (Underwater) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs: 17 (10) x 9 Strike Points=20 x 9 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=14 

Life Points/Resistance=54/25 (18) Mental Points/Resistance=10/17 (10) Special Abilities=Head regenerate Water adaptation Habitat=Lakes, rivers Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

The hydra is a terrifying serpent with nine heads and a total length of 10 meters. They mainly live in lakes and rivers, but can also act on land without penalty. In combat, a hydra attacks with its nine heads. At this time, it can attack a single target 9 times, or aim at different targets. 

If you attack a hydra with a bladed weapon and deal 6 or more points of damage (20 or more if defense points are taken into account) in one blow, you will have cut off one head, and the hydra's number of attacks will be reduced by 1. A severed head will grow back after 5 rounds, restoring the number of attacks, and also recovering 6 life points. However, if a head is dealt fire or electric damage immediately after it falls off, that head will not regenerate. Once its life points reach 0, its heads will no longer regenerate. 

## **[ Humbaba ]** 

Monster Level=10 

Rarity=15 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Arm:18 (11) Strike Points=17 

Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=18 Life Points/Resistance=21/19 (12) Mental Points/Resistance=21/19 (12) Special Abilities=Gaze (Resist target score=17, petrifying, once every 3 rounds) 

Fire breath that covers one person (Resist target score=17, strike power 20, bonus damage 10 as well as illness/Intensity 7, once every 3 rounds) 

Fire immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Forests 

Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses 

The humbaba is a strange bizarre creature created by the sorcerers of the 

196 

ancient kingdom, along with the buckbaird. It looks like a titan with one eye and one leg, and is over 2 meters tall. Its body color ranges from green to yellow, with a head of long hair of the same color growing in all directions like a lion's mane. 

A humbaba will fire a terrifying petrification ray from its one eye, once every 3 rounds. Those struck by this gaze must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17. If you fail, you will instantly turn to stone. Even if this ray is reflected off a mirror, etc. it cannot affect the humbaba. 