## 5.1.14 Spirit Magic List

round hole 50 cm in diameter will be created. At this time, the will-o-wisp will also vanish. If _Spirit Wall: Wisp_ is used in the same place, their effects will negate each other, and both walls will vanish. 

A wall of darkness cannot be put up within the area of effect of the ancient magic _Light_ . Also, if the magical light created by _Light_ and the wall of darkness overlap, the wall will end there. 

## **Spirit Wall: Sylph** 

## (Sylph/Wind Spirit) 

Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

By borrowing the power of the wind spirit, you can create a wall of surging storms. When you chant the spell, a wild gust of wind comes out of nowhere and begins swirling in the same place. The storm wall is transparent, so it won't block your gaze, but all projectile attacks, including those from _Shoot Arrow_ , will be deflected in front of you by the sylphs lurking in the wind. Those that touch the wall or try to pass through it must attempt to resist. If you succeed, you will be able to pass through the wall without incident, but if you fail, you will be blown away in the opposite direction from the wall. The storm wall cannot be destroyed by physical methods or magic that deals damage. 

## **Spirit Wall: Dryad** 

## (Dryad/Plant Spirit) 

Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=None 

By borrowing the power of plant spirits, creates a wall of living vegetation consisting of vines and thorn bushes. When you chant the spell, vines will sprout from the ground and entangle each other, filling the gaps with thorn bushes. You can't see through it, and you can't pass through it. 

This wall _can_ be destroyed by weapons or magic. For more information, please refer to _18.3: Rules_ 

_for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). However, this wall regenerates by growing new trees one after the other. Even if the wall is completely destroyed, it will continue to regenerate for the duration of the spell. 

## **Spirit Wall: Gnome** 

## (Gnome/Earth Spirit) 

Type=Target score Countered (Overpowered) By: _Tunnel_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume Resist=None 

By borrowing the power of the earth spirit, you can build a smooth wall made of solid rock. When you chant this spell, a number of stone slabs break through the ground and rise up in a flash, creating a seamless wall. A rock wall blocks your gaze and cannot be passed through without making a hole in the wall. 

For details on the destruction of this wall, please refer to _18.3: Rules for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). 

## **Spirit Wall: Frau** 

## (Frau/Ice Spirit) 

Type=Target score, damage (Cold-type) Counters (Negates): _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Negated) By: _Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Cold Protective Circle_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, target volume, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

By borrowing the power of the ice spirits, you can build a freezing wall of ice. When you chant the spell, cold mist gathers and becomes frost, then the frost rises in bands of ice. Your gaze can see through the ice wall, but you cannot pass through it. It's made of magical ice, so if you touch this wall, you will be exposed to the cold air radiated from the ice and take strike power 10 damage. 

This wall can be destroyed by weapons or magic. For more information, please refer to _18.3: Rules for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). 

## **[ Decrease Water Pressure ] (Undine/Water Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=1 hour Effect=Relieves water pressure when diving Type=Target score 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

Targets under this spell are saved from the effects of water pressure when diving deep underwater. All water pressure exerted on the body by the spell will be alleviated regardless of its strength, and reduced to a point where normal actions are no longer a problem. If you cast this spell, you can fight underwater without any penalties at all. 

In addition, to actually dive, it is essential to use _Water Breathing_ in order to be able to breathe underwater. 

## **[ Preserve Sound ] (Sylph/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=Until sound is transmitted 

Effect=Record and transmit sound to a specific location Type=- 

Expansion=Distance, area Resist=None 

This spell has the effect of recording a sound and transmitting it to a specific location. It secures a sylph in place and allows it to transmit recorded sounds to others. You can optionally determine the person to whom the sound is transmitted to some extent, such as the first person to step into that space. However, in order to specify a specific person, the caster must be familiar with the person's features and appearance. Also, at the same time you cast the spell, you must also generate the sound you want to transmit. It's also _not_ possible to use this to record spells and activate them. Even if _Silence_ is cast later, this spell still takes effect. 

Once the sound is transmitted, the effect of this spell vanishes. 

92

## **7th Level Spirit Magic List [ Windstorm ]** 

## **(Djinn/Greater Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Create a tornado, knocking targets prone within range and dealing strike power 10 damage. 

Type=Target score, damage (Wind cuttertype) 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell creates a tornado in a 10 meter radius around a point in space. Anyone except the caster within the spell's area of effect, or who attempts to enter the tornado during the spell's duration must attempt to resist. Those who successfully resist will move at half their normal movement speed (there is no change in their action order) and can take actions with a -2 penalty on success rolls such as attack, evasion, etc. However, those who fail to resist are slammed to the ground and can only move 3 meters per round while crawling on the ground for the duration of the spell. When attacking, evading, etc. in this state, all will suffer a -4 penalty. 

Additionally, the tornado creates a vacuum that cuts the skin and flesh of those within its area of effect, dealing strike power 10 damage. The cutting damage continues to have an effect until the target leaves the area of effect. Damage is determined by making a strike roll each round. Only the first attempt to resist this spell counts. Objects weighing less than 10 kilograms or equipment held in the hand or not securely attached to the body will be blown out of the area of effect. 

## **[ Crack ] (Behemoth/Greater Earth Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 Distance=30 meters Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Trap the target between a crack in the ground, dealing strike power 30 damage Type=Damage (Earthquake-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, target volume, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that creates deep cracks, causing the ground underfoot to cave in, and swallowing the target in a deep chasm created this way. If a target falls into the cracks, they will first be buried in the ground up to their chest, and then be caught between the closing bedrock. Then, by being crushed between the bedrock, they will suffer strike power 30 damage. The effect of the spell is momentary, but once something is swallowed up by the crack, it cannot climb out of it on its own. It remains trapped in the crack until someone else pulls it out, which takes one round. When trapped in the ground, there is a - 4 penalty to attack power (points) and evasion speed (points). If you successfully resist the spell, you will avoid being swallowed by the crack and will not be affected. 

Note that this spell can also be used on targets larger than human size by expanding its effect. 

## **[ Valkyrie Blessing ] (Valkyrie/Mind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Gives pure energy protection to the target's armor, absorbing incoming damage Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=None 

When you chant this spell, a faint glow of light inhabits the target's armor or shield, covering the target's entire body in protective light. The protective light absorbs all damage up to 50 points in total, whether it's caused by weapons or by magic. The protective light thus fades each time you take damage, and disappears when it's dealt more than 50 points of damage. When the protection 

runs out, any damage beyond that (such as suffering 20 damage when the protection has only 10 remaining) will not reach the target. Any damage is first absorbed by this protective light, so until it vanishes, virtually no damage can be dealt directly to the body. When damage is dealt to this protection, reductions due to armor or adventurer level are not taken into account. 

Please note that this spell can only be used _by_ men. 

## **[ Plant Shell ] (Ent/Greater Plant Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=28 

Distance=Touch 

Area=A space with a 5 meter radius and a 2 meter height 

Duration=1 day Effect=Create a shelter made of plants Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration, area Resist=None 

When you chant this spell, plants will grow along the perimeter of a 5 meter radius circle centered on the place the caster touches, creating a 2 meter tall dome of natural plants on the next round. The dome serves as a tent that protects from the elements and as a temporary shelter when a suitable campsite cannot be found. The inside of the dome is covered with a carpet of soft fresh grass, making it moderately warm and moderately cool. The outer walls of the dome are tough and densely intertwined with living plants, protecting those inside from attacks by wild beasts and less powerful monsters. When entering or exiting the outer wall, the entrance can be partially opened or closed with one command from the caster. Additionally, the dome itself blends in well with the terrain, especially in forests and jungles, making it extremely difficult to locate the dome itself. 

## **[ Full Control Spirit ] (Various lesser spirits)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One lesser spirit Duration=Permanent 

93

Effect=Summon different types of spirits and take complete control of them Type=Target score 

Counters (Overpowers): _Control Spirit_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Control Spirit_ Expansion=Final score, distance Resist=None 

This is a spell used to summon and control lesser spirits, and is an advanced _Control Spirit_ spell. By casting this spell, a caster can control the spirits according to their own will. Same as _Control Spirit_ , spirits that have been successfully summoned and controlled can be sealed in items, etc. It is the same as _Control Spirit_ in that it requires a three-hour ritual, only one type of spirit can be controlled at a time, and it is possible to communicate in silent spirit. However, the biggest difference from _Control Spirit_ is that it can ignore the spirit's will and force the caster's commands. Depending on the nature (intelligence and habits) of the controlled spirit, it can be made to carry out fairly complex and advanced commands. For example, you can command a sylph to create a cloud of dust to blind your enemies, or a salamander to set fire to the roofs of a row of houses one by one. It is up to the caster to decide what kind of command to give. You can also command others to attack, which is not possible with a lower level spell. However, if you command a spirit to do something that is too contrary to its true nature, the spirit may disappear after carrying out the command. For detailed characteristics and details of the controlled spirits, please refer to 13.2.4: Spirits (see p. 181) 

Please note that it is not possible to use both the _Control Spirit_ and _Full Control Spirit_ spells to control different spirits. In this case, the effect of the previously cast spell will vanish. 

## **8th Level Spirit Magic List [ Ice Coffin ]** 

## **(Fenrir/Greater Ice Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=32 Distance=30 meters Area=1 x 1 x 2 meters 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Trap the opponent in a pillar of ice Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, distance, target volume Resist=Negated effect 

This spell instantly condenses moisture in the air, creating a pillar of ice 1 meter wide and 2 meters high, which can trap your opponent. If the opponent successfully resists, the ice pillar will vanish before it’s completed. Although it cannot be cast on opponents who are too large to fit into the ice pillar, you can increase the size of the ice pillar by expanding the effect. 

If the target fails to resist, they become trapped in ice, unable to take any action, will lose consciousness and enter a state of suspended animation. 

Once the ice pillar completely melts or breaks, the target will be free. Although they're in a state of suspended animation and their life force (points) is 0, they're _not_ dead. The time it takes for an ice pillar to naturally melt varies depending on temperature, etc. If the temperature is below freezing, it will not melt permanently. 

Even if your friends are trapped in an ice pillar, it is extremely dangerous to attempt to destroy it. This is because there is a risk that your friends who are packed in the ice will also be destroyed. Damage dealt to the ice by weapons etc. will also be applied to whatever's inside the ice. For details on destruction, please refer to _18.3: Rules for Destroying Structures_ (see p. 277). 

## **[ Ice Storm ] (Fenrir/Greater Ice Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Creates an ice storm, dealing strike power 30 damage to targets within range Type=Damage (Cold-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell creates a violent freezing ice storm in a 10 meter radius centered 

on a point in space. The ice storm deals cutting damage from countless ice shards and frostbite damage from the terrible cold air to everything within its range. Its strike power is 30. 

## **[ Current ]** 

## **(Kraken/Greater Water Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=32 Distance=10 meters 

Area=20 meter width 

Duration=1 hour 

Effect=Can control the direction of water flow 

Type=Target score Countered (Overpowered) By: _Maelstrom_ Expansion=Final score, duration, distance Resist=None 

This spell can be cast on rivers, canals, lakes, oceans, etc. to adjust the flow of water there. Casting this spell while on a ship makes it easier to go against the natural flow. Movement speed is limited to 50 meters per round, and can be adjusted by the caster, but the flow cannot be changed in a very complicated way. Also, this spell cannot be used to dam the flow or divide the surface of the water to open a path. 

## **[ Suffocate ] (Djinn/Wind Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds or until the target dies Effect=Suffocate the target 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=Negated effect 

This spell suffocates the target and ultimately results in death. Those who've had this spell cast on them and fail to resist will be unable to breathe. For this reason, spells cannot be used and all other actions also suffer a -4 penalty. Then, once _life force (points)_ rounds have elapsed, they will suffocate and die. However, if the spell's duration expires before _life force (points)_ rounds have elapsed, the spell becomes meaningless. 

This spell has no effect on plant monsters, undead, magical creatures, etc. 

94

## **[ Nightmare ] (Incubus, Succubus/Dream Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 Distance=Infinite Area=One 

Duration=As long as the ritual continues Effect=Make the target weak by giving them nightmares every night Type=Target score, curse Expansion=Final score Resist=Reduced effect 

This is a spell that uses a dream spirit to send nightmares into the target's sleep, cursing your opponent to death. This spell has no distance restrictions, but the target must be someone the caster knows personally. The spell begins when the target goes to sleep, while the caster remains awake and focuses on controlling the dream spirit. Thus, the dream spirit controlled in this way enters the opponent's dreams and causes them to have nightmares. At this time, the contents of the nightmare the opponent sees can be chosen as desired by the caster. This ritual must be performed every night until the target becomes weak and dies. If the ritual is interrupted, even for one night, the spell's effect is completely lost. Also, the ritual must be continued overnight with undivided attention from sunset until dawn. 

The target of the spell must attempt to resist daily. If they fail, their mental power (points) will decrease by 1 point. Also, regardless of whether the resist succeeded or failed, they will no longer be able to recover their mental power (points) by _any_ means (it will _only_ recover once the spell's effect is removed). 

The spell's effect will never disappear until the ritual is interrupted for some reason or it is negated with _Remove Curse_ , etc. If their mental power (points) reaches 0 due to the spell's reduction, the person will fall into a coma, and die if the ritual continues for one more week. 

## **[ Firestorm ] (Efreet/Greater Fire Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=A space with a 10 meter radius Duration=Instant 

Effect=Creates a storm of flames that deals 30 strike power damage Type=Damage (Fire-type) Expansion=Final score, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell creates a storm of scorching flame in a 10 meter radius centered on a point in space. The firestorm deals fire and heat damage to everything within its radius. Its strike power is 30. 

## **[ Maze Woods ] (Ent/Greater Plant Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=Caster 

Area=Area within a 500 meter radius from the caster 

## Duration=1 day 

Effect=Create a forest of bewilderment and make it impossible to get out. Type=Illusion, target score Expansion=Final score, duration, area Resist=Negated effect 

To chant this spell, you'll need a large forest dense enough to confuse the target. Anyone within the area of effect when the spell is cast, or who enters within the area of effect during the duration of the spell, must make a resistance roll. If you fail, you will be fooled by the illusion caused by the deep forest and the scenery that looks the same everywhere, and you will unknowingly continue to circle around the forest within the area of effect. 

If several are acting at the same time and only _some_ successfully resist, those who resisted can _see_ those who could _not_ resist, but those who could _not_ resist will quickly _lose_ sight of their allies. Those who resisted will become separated unless they take notice and lead the way. 

The caster can move freely without being affected by the magic, and can also choose to free any object (which they must specifically identify) from the spell's effects. 

## **9th Level Spirit Magic List [ Earthquake ] (Behemoth/Greater Earth Spirit)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=10 meter radius ground Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Causes an earthquake, knocking targets prone within range and dealing strike power 20 damage 

Type=Target score, damage (Earthquaketype) 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell causes a localized earthquake only within a 10 meter radius. With the exception of the caster, anyone within the spell's area of effect or who attempts to enter the earthquake during the spell's duration will be knocked off their feet and fall prone, regardless of whether or not they successfully resist. For the duration of the spell, you can only move 3 meters per round while crawling on the ground, taking a -4 penalty on success rolls such as attacks, evasion, etc. 

Additionally, as long as you remain within the area of effect, you will be slammed to the ground by the earthquake every round, suffering strike power 20 damage. However, those who successfully resist will only suffer strike power 10 and no criticals. This earthquake causes all normal houses within the spell's area of effect to collapse (with the exception of strong buildings such as castles and forts, or those with magical protection), and trees to fall down. Depending on the situation, falling rocks and avalanches are quite possible. 

Please note that you may only make a resistance roll check against this spell once per round in which the spell is cast. At this time, the result lasts for the duration of the spell (damage is determined by a new dice roll each round) 

95