# 5.1.16 Basic Holy Magic List

form of attention or assistance. If a priest of Marfa and his wife make a vow to _never divorce_ at the time of their marriage, but then the relationship between the two turns sour, the two of them may end up having a child together. No vow can be made that violates your faith in your god. For example, a priest of Myrii _can_ make a vow to _defeat the traitor XX with my own hands_ , but a priest of Marfa _cannot_ . 

## **5.1.16** 

## **Basic Holy Magic List** 

The spells listed here are available to characters with the priest (dark priest) skill without exception. 

## **1st Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Cure Wounds ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=5 Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Restore recovery power 10 life force (points) 

Type=- 

Expansion=Distance, targets, effect (damage) certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of instantly healing any wound. Use the key number 10 column on the Rating Table to determine the base life force (points) to be recovered, same way as for attack rolls and defense rolls. The caster can add their own magic power to this result. When using the _Rating Table_ , the _critical_ process is _not_ performed. Only _one_ check needs to be made. 

This spell can also deal damage to undead. If you use it on undead, and the undead fail to resist, it deals strike power 10 damage. However, even in this case, _no_ critical will occur, and if the undead successfully resist, it'll have no effect at all. 

Whether it's healing or dealing damage to undead, by expanding the effect, you can use the _Rating Table_ 

multiple times and use the maximum value. 

This has no effect on magical creatures that do not have normal life, such as skeleton warriors, etc. 

## **[ Sanity ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Restore the target's peace of mind Type=Mind Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of returning the target's mind to its normal state. As a result, you can remove the effects of spells that affect the mind of a target. If the spell you want to remove has a target score, you must attempt a success roll against it using magic power as the baseline score. If this fails, the spell's effect will not be removed. Emotional tensions caused by the target's personal reasons can also be removed, but unless the _cause_ is eliminated, they will likely return to their original state. 

## **[ Turn Undead ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=5 

Distance=10 meters Area=A space with a 5 meter radius Duration=18 rounds Effect=Affects undead in various ways Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, area, effect 

Resist=Negated effect 

This spell creates a space that acts as a negative force against undead, and has the effects as shown on Table 5-6: Turn Undead. However, a success roll check is required, and if you fail, there will be no effect. If successful, roll another 2D and an effect corresponding to the rolled score will be applied. If you have multiple targets, make success rolls to determine the effects for each one. 

This spell's effect can be expanded. If expanded, make an equivalent number of checks on the _Turn Undead_ table, then apply which result the caster finds most desirable. 

**==> picture [172 x 237] intentionally omitted <==**

99

## **Table 5-6: Turn Undead** 

2D Result 2[The undead go berserk from a state of panic. Attack points +2, evasion points -4. Even those with intelligence can no longer act rationally and ] cannot use magic, etc. 3 Same as above 4 Undead are struck by panic and are prevented from taking action. Suffer a -1 penalty to attack points, evasion points, and magic intensity. 5 Same as above, but penalty is -2 6 Same as above, but penalty is -3 7 Undead run away. They go berserk if that’s not possible. 8 Undead run away. If that's not possible, they act with a -3 penalty 9 Undead run away. If that's not possible, they freeze in fear and become unable to act 10 Undead freeze in fear. They become unable to act 11 Same as above 12 Undead crumble away 

## **[ Transfer Mental Power ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=1 Distance=Touch 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Transfer the caster's mental power (points) to another person Type=Expansion=Effect Resist=None 

This spell is a spell that transfers the caster's mental power (points) to another person as it is. For example, if the caster spends 10 points of mental power with this spell, 9 points will be added to the target's mental power, excluding the base mental power cost of 1 point. Even those who have lost their consciousness with 0 mental power can be recovered with this spell. 

The amount of mental power being transferred _cannot_ be divided by priest skill level. Even if you are a 10th level priest, if you want to give _10_ points of mental power (points) to a target, you must spend _11_ points of mental power (points). 

Please note that this spell _cannot_ transfer more mental power (points) than the target's _starting_ mental power (points). 

## **2nd Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Cure Deafness ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=6 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Restore lost hearing Type=Counters (Negates): _Deafness_ Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a spell that restores hearing lost due to illness, injury, etc. It is also a counter spell to the dark magic _Deafness_ . 

## **[ Cure Blindness ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=6 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Restore lost vision Type=Counters (Negates): _Blindness_ Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a spell that restores vision lost due to illness, injury, etc. It is also a counter spell to the dark magic _Blindness_ . 

## **[ Force ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=10 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Deals strike power 10 shockwave damage to the target Type=Damage (Explosion-type) 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

When you chant this spell, an invisible shockwave is emitted from the caster, dealing strike power 10 damage to the target. If the target successfully resists, the strike power becomes 0 and no criticals occur. 

## **[ Holy Weapon ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=8 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One weapon Duration=18 rounds Effect=+10 to a weapon's strike power against undead 

Type=Weapon enhancement Expansion=Duration, distance, targets Resist=None 

This is a spell that applies a negative force against undead to a weapon, rather than to space like _Turn Undead_ . As a result of this, you can add 10 to the strike power of a normal weapon when making a damage check against undead. 

This additional strike power does not apply to anything other than undead. It also has no effect on (non-undead) enemies that can only be wounded by magical weapons, such as werewolves, etc. For _undead_ that can only be wounded by magic weapons, strike power will be _10_ regardless of the strike power of the weapon itself. 

100

## **3rd Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Cure Poison ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=9 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Removes the effects of poisons and drugs on the target Type=Counters (Negates): _Poison_ Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell is an antidote spell used on an individual. If the final score when casting the spell is greater than or equal to the _toxicity score_ of each poison, that poison can be neutralized. For details, see 12.2.1: Poisons (see p. 159). Even if your body is infected by _multiple_ poisons, you can neutralize them _all_ with a single spell, as long as the final score is greater than or equal to each toxicity score. If you have used magic potions, etc. you can also remove their effects. _All_ abnormal substances in the body are eliminated, and even if the proportion of a substance that normally exists is abnormal, it will be returned to its original state. Therefore, any symptoms of drunkenness, etc. will completely vanish. 

## **[ Holy Light ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=12 

Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 10 meter radius from the caster 

## Duration=Instant 

Effect=Emits holy light, dealing strike power 20 damage to undead within range Type=Damage (Special) Counters (Overpowers): _Shade_ , _Spirit Wall: Shade_ 

Expansion=Final score, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell emits a light from your hands that is harmful to undead. As a result, you can deal damage to undead within 10 meters of the caster. Its strike power is 20. 

Also, anyone (undead or not) who sees the spell's light and fails to resist 

loses their vision for one round due to the glare. Those who lose their vision suffer a penalty of -4 to attack power (points) and evasion speed (points). This means that undead will suffer damage _and_ lose vision for one round. 

This spell cannot take effect within the area of effect of _Darkness_ . 

## **4th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Cure Disease ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=12 Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Heal the target's illness Type=Ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell can be used on an individual and has the effect of healing them of any illness they may be suffering from. If the final score when casting this spell is greater than or equal to _double the healing score_ of each disease, you can heal that disease. For details, see 12.2.2: Illnesses (see p. 164). This spell can heal multiple diseases at once and restore health. 

## **[ Protective Circle ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=16 

Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 5 meter radius from the caster Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Protects those within range from abnormally high or low temperatures 

This spell has the effect of protecting the caster and anyone within 5 meters from abnormally high or low temperatures. There are two types of this spell: _Heat Protective Circle_ and _Cold Protective Circle_ . 

## **Heat Protective Circle** 

Type=Counters (Overpowers): _Cold Protective Circle, Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Cold Protective Circle, Spirit Wall: Salamander_ Expansion=Duration, area Resist=None 

This spell protects those within its area of effect from fire and heat. The specific effect is that you can subtract 2 points from damage from those attacks. The same goes for attacks from weapons that had _Fire Weapon_ cast on them. Salamanders, which are fire spirits, will not attempt to enter within this range. If a fire spirit enters the area of effect, that spirit will immediately try to leave. If this is not possible (for example, if it's being controlled by another person using a spell such as _Control Spirit_ , if it's sealed in an item, etc.), the spirit will return to its own spirit world. 

## **Cold Protective Circle** 

Type=Counters (Overpowers): _Heat Protective Circle, Spirit Wall: Frau_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Heat Protective Circle, Spirit Wall: Frau_ Expansion=Duration, Area Resist=None 

The effect of this spell is almost the same as _Heat Protective Circle_ , but it protects against damage from ice and cold. Those within the area of effect can subtract 2 points from this kind of damage. Also, frau, an ice spirit, will not try to enter this range. If they are inside when the spell is cast, they will immediately try to escape, and if for some reason that is not possible, they will return to their own spirit world. 

## **5th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Quest ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 Distance=Touch 

Area=One 

Duration=Until the mission is accomplished Effect=Force one mission on the target Type=Curse, target score, ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of allowing the caster to set one mission for the target. For example, you might be asked to fetch a certain item or defeat a certain monster. If the target of the spell takes any action that violates this mission, they will experience severe pain throughout 

101

their entire body. The pain is _so_ severe that if you continue to be exposed to it for more than 10 minutes, you will become mentally abnormal. This is not a matter of action, but of the mind, and the spell does not cause pain unless the one on whom it was cast forgets their mission. However, even if you _do_ remember, you will still experience pain if you do not actively try to fulfill it. 

This spell is canceled when the caster dies. The mission that can be forced on an opponent through a _Quest_ must be specific and able to be identified, and a mission that is too great will nullify the spell's coercive power. For example, asking someone to bring you the most beautiful woman in the world is an abstract command, and ruling the world is a mission that goes beyond the compulsion of this spell. The target does _not_ have to comply with these missions if the caster requests them to be accomplished. 

You can attempt to resist this spell when it's cast. However, the caster can tell whether the spell has taken effect or not, so it may be repeated two or three times. 

## **[ Remove Curse ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=Touch 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Remove all spells except _nonremovable_ 

Type=Counters (Negates): Any magic other than _non-removable_ , _ritual_ Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This spell negates all magic except for _non-removable_ . It's especially often used for spells with curse effects, such as _Curse_ and _Geas_ . However, you can only attempt to remove one spell's effect _once_ . If the attempt fails, the caster cannot try again until their magic power increases. 

## **6th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Exorcism ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=1 haunt 

## Duration=Instant 

Effect=Makes a haunt vanish from the material world 

Type=Ritual Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This spell is cast on a human possessed by the undead monster called the _haunt_ , or on a location where a haunt is bound. If you can attain a final score that's greater than or equal to the haunt's mental point resistance, you can make that haunt vanish from the material world. However, if this magic fails, the haunt will attack and try to kill the caster. It may attempt to _possess_ the caster. 

This magic's final score can be increased through a ritual, but the haunt must be in a disabled state in order to begin the ritual. Once the ritual has begun, the targeted haunt _cannot_ be active during the ritual. 

If a haunt is extinguished by this spell, its soul will be completely annihilated, so even if you use the spells _Resurrection_ and _Save Soul_ , you will no longer be able to bring it back to how it was before it became a haunt. 

## **[ Preservation ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=Touch Area=One object Duration=Permanent Effect=Protect objects from decay Type=Target score, Non-removable Counters (Overpowers): _Rot_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Rot_ Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

This is a spell that protects objects that would normally rot from decay. Objects that have this spell cast on them will no longer decay naturally. It can be used to preserve food, and it is also effective in protecting corpses that are planned to be brought back to life in the future with _Resurrection_ . It is also a 

counter spell to the dark magic _Rot_ , and if cast within the duration of _Rot_ , it can restore things that have decayed back to their original state. However, even if you cast it on something that has completely decayed after the duration of _Rot_ has expired, or something that has naturally decayed, it will _not_ return to its original state. 

If the effect of this spell is removed, such as with _Perfect Cancellation_ , etc. the decay will begin to progress at normal rate from that moment on. 

## **7th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Force Explosion ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

## Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 10 meter radius from the caster 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Causes an explosion centered on the caster, dealing strike power 30 damage Type=Damage (Explosion-type) Expansion=Final score, area, damage certainty Resist=Reduced effect 

This spell is an indiscriminate expansion of _Force_ , which causes an explosion centered around the caster. The shockwave deals strike power 30 damage to everything within a 10 meter radius. This spell deals no damage to the caster him or herself, but it _will_ deal damage to others in the area of effect, regardless of whether they're friend or foe. 

## **[ Regeneration ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=35 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=1 week Effect=Recover target's physical losses Type=Non-removable Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a spell that regenerates missing or non-functioning body tissues and restores their function. This spell is also effective in restoring vision and hearing. One week is required for regeneration and functional recovery. 

102

**Table 5-7: Summon Servant** 

Pharis Dog, hawk, horse (they’re faithfully tamed by humans) Myrii Eagle, hawk, tiger, wolf (they hunt) Rahda Rat, fox, crow (they have a certain cleverness) Cha Za Small bird, wolf (they chirp, howl, etc.), rabbit (their feet are a symbol of good luck), crows aren’t allowed (a symbol of bad luck) Marfa Cow, horse, rabbit, chicken (they’re livestock) Wehner Sheep, birds (they have distinct wool or feathers) Ganerd Mouse, squirrel, monkey, bear (they use their forefeet skillfully) Fenes Dog, wolf (why.....?.) Braki Mole, woodpecker, squirrel, small bird (they have the characteristic of nest-building) 

This spell does _not_ help restore life force (points) from wounds, nor can it be cast on a corpse to bring it back to life. 

## **8th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Summon Servant ]** 

## Base Mental Power Cost=32 

## Distance=Caster 

Area=An area within a 1 kilometer radius from the caster 

Duration=1 hour 

Effect=Summon animals that represent a god Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration, area Resist=None 

By chanting this spell, the caster can summon animals (mammals, birds, reptiles, or amphibians) within a 1 kilometer radius and give them simple commands. It can be any number of animals, and you can also summon just the one closest to you, or all within range. However, you _cannot_ summon different types of animals at the same time. 

The commands you give the animal should be very simple. For example, launching an attack on a specific target, delivering a certain package somewhere, heading to a certain location as a group, etc. You can also give commands to encourage suicide, such as jumping into a fire to become food, but if you give such commands unnecessarily, you may risk _losing_ your priest skill depending on the god you worship. For example, a priest of Myrii should _only_ use animals to buy time while he escapes from an enemy, unless the enemy is extremely unmanageable. 

The animals that are summoned vary depending on the god the priest worships. Here are some representative gods and the animals associated with them (Table 5-7: Summon Servant). 

## **[ Power Link ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 

Distance=Caster 

Area=A space within a 10 meter radius from the caster 

Duration=Until focus ends 

Effect=Create an accumulation field for mental power 

Type=Focus, target score Expansion=Final score, area Resist=None 

This spell has the effect of accumulating the mental power (points) of those within the area of effect (can be chosen by the caster at will) and creating a sort of accumulation field. Those within range must agree to the spell, and if so, decide how many points of mental power (points) they want to pour into the accumulation field. The caster him or herself can also pour their mental power (points) into the pool. Those who agree to the spell will have their mental power (points) _reduced_ by the amount they sent to the accumulation field (at this time, if their mental power/points are reduced to 0, they will lose consciousness), but they can freely _draw out_ the mental points stored in the accumulation field and use them to cast magic, etc. However, when your mental power (points) suffer damage from certain monster attacks or spells such as _Mental Attack_ , etc. you _cannot_ substitute them with mental 

points from the collection field. It's only effective if you try to use your mental power (points) voluntarily. 

If the priest's focus is interrupted or the spell is canceled by _Dispel Magic_ , etc. the mental power (points) accumulated at that moment will be released and disappear. Those who agreed to the spell _cannot_ take back the mental power (points) poured into the collection field. 

Also, those who do not agree _cannot_ be forced into this spell. 

## **[ Refresh ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Get the target back to perfect health Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

When a priest chants this spell, it allows them to fully restore a target from an unhealthy state. If you've lost life points due to wounds, etc. you will fully recover them, in addition to also cure poison, illness, petrification, etc. 

This spell cannot restore a lost life or recover mental power (points). It also cannot regenerate missing body parts. 

When used against undead, if the undead fails to resist, you can instantly reduce its life points 0. 

103