## **9th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Recall Spirit ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=Caster 

Area=Caster 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Give the caster's body to a soul of the dead 

Type=Expansion=Resist=None 

This is a precious spell of selfsacrifice. If this spell is used, the priest's soul will be called to their god. However, in return, they can use their body to bring the dead back to life. _Only_ those that the caster knows well (or at least is acquainted with) can be resurrected. Also, those who have lost their souls and are destroyed, or those who have become undead, _cannot_ be resurrected. 

Priests who have given their bodies to others cannot be resurrected using _Resurrection_ , because they have lost their soul containers (although they _can_ have another priest cast _Recall Spirit_ on them...). 

## **[ Resurrection ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Bring the dead back to life Type=Ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

_Resurrection_ is a spell that brings back lost life and resurrects the dead. In order to bring someone back to life, you need something that is strongly connected to the dead person who is the target of the spell. If you have a corpse, that's fine, but if you don't, you'll need items that were loved by the deceased. Also, if the soul is not in normal condition, the spell has no effect. In other words, this spell is useless if the soul is destroyed, and those who have become undead must first save their soul with the _Save Soul_ spell. 

The effect of this spell is _not_ guaranteed. The _more_ time has passed 

since you died, the _less_ likely you are to come back to life. If you die within one day, you can be resurrected with a final score of 20 or greater, but for each day that passes, the required final value score will increase by 1, such as 21, 22, 23...... etc. Once this spell fails, the caster _cannot_ attempt _Resurrection_ on the same dead person (it will always fail) until their magic power increases. Also, since it’s not possible to reverse your age, those who die due to old age _cannot_ be saved. 

You can add +6 to the final score of the spell if you have a corpse. However, it must _not_ be in a state where it would die immediately even if it came back to life, such as a decapitated corpse, etc. The same goes for rotting corpses. These corpses will only be treated as _something connected to the dead person_ . If they died due to poison, etc. or if their life force was dealt damage by weapons or magic, you must cast _Cure Poison_ or _Cure Wounds_ beforehand. 

Immediately after being resurrected, they have almost no ability to act. It takes one week for the body to return to its normal state and to be able to function without hindrance. 

## **10th Level Basic Holy Magic List** 

## **[ Call God ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=Caster Area=Caster Duration=10 minutes 

Effect=Temporarily summons the god the caster worships 

Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

When you chant this spell, you can summon a major god into your own body. Even gods who have lost contact with the material world will be able to use their full power if summoned with this spell. However, the effect of the spell is temporary, and moreover, humans' frail bodies and minds cannot withstand the great power of a god, so after the spell's duration has expired, the caster's soul is destroyed, and even if you use 

spells such as _Resurrection_ etc. you will _not_ be able to bring them back to life again. 

## **[ Save Soul ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 Distance=Touch Area=One Soul Duration=Instant Effect=Rescue an undead soul Type=Ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

There are several cases in which a normal life form becomes undead. Those that have had their mental power (points) taken away by other undead (wights, lesser vampires, etc.), those created by magic (skeleton, zombies, etc.), those created by their own will (haunts, undead kings, etc.), and there are also things such as ghouls whose causes are still unknown. In either case, if you become undead, your soul will become abnormal and you will not be able to be resurrected even if _Resurrection_ is used normally. 

This spell saves the souls of those who have become undead. If the undead agrees, the spell is almost guaranteed to succeed (with the exception of double ones), but otherwise you must attain a final score greater than or equal to the undead's mental point resistance. 

If the spell is successful, the undead will cease all activity at that point. If you then cast _Resurrection_ , it is also possible to restore their life. 

One priest can only attempt one _Save Soul_ against a given undead. If you fail, you _cannot_ try again until your magic power increases. 

104