that of the first human who gave it blood. If raised with the blood of a ruthless criminal, a ruthless alraune will be born. Since alraune are an artificial variety, they have no fertility. Also, they do not have a weakness to fire, which is the weakness of plant-type monsters. 

## **[ Bloody Petal ]** 

This plant, which has huge red flowers that resemble the color of human blood, is called _blood flower_ , but is sometimes also called _man-eating flower_ , which more clearly describes its characteristics. 

This plant can grow up to about 10 meters in height. The stem has 2 to 5 bud-shaped flowers about 1 meter in diameter. When a creature such as a human, etc. approaches, the folded flower stalks extend out and the buds open to envelop their prey. The flower stalks grow to about 10 meters long. 

## **Flower** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=11 Agility=10 Movement Speed=0 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Flower:11 (4) Strike Points=7 

Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=1/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=-/14 (7) Special Abilities=Strangling 

Mental attack immunity Weak to fire 

Habitat=Forests 

Languages=None Perception=Magic 

This flower's attack strangles (see p. 236) the character and deals damage. When the prey dies, the flower reverts back to a bud and finishes absorbing nutrients in about one week. If the prey escapes with all their might, the flower becomes torn and unusable, and will eventually wither. 

## **Body** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=11 Agility=10 Movement Speed=0 

Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=20/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=-/14 (7) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Weak to fire 

Habitat=Forests Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Adventurers can also attack the body. If the body's life points reach 0, the flower will also cease activity. 

## **[ Fungus ]** 

Monster Level=8 Rarity=15 Agility=7 Movement Speed=7 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Barehanded:15 (8) Strike Points=11 

Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=17/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=9/15 (8) Special Abilities=Toxic spores (Toxicity score 16, illusions as well as turning into a fungus) Habitat=Damp, dark places Languages=Regional Perception=Pseudo 

A fungus is a mass of mushrooms shaped like a human, or rather, a human whose entire body is covered in mushrooms. They quietly lurk in forests, etc. killing animals and humans that pass by, and absorbing nutrients from the corpses. They cannot survive for long in dry or sunny areas. 

Fungus release toxic spores (toxicity score 16) when injured. While fighting a fungus, anyone within a 5 meter radius may inhale the spores. After combat, they must make a life force resistance roll against target score 16, and those who fail will then have mushrooms growing all over their bodies after 24 hours. No matter how many you cut off, there will be no end. Gradually, your sense of humanity will fade and you’ll begin to suffer from hallucinations. To cure this, use the holy magic _Cure Poison_ or the spirit magic _Restore Health_ . When the spell is cast, if the caster's final score is 16 or greater, it will be healed. 

If one week elapses without treatment, the character will turn into a fungus. Those who have completely become a fungus cannot be cured with the holy magic _Cure Poison_ nor the spirit magic _Restore Health_ . They can only be restored to their original state by using the holy magic _Refresh_ . 

## **13.2.9** 

## **Undead** 

## **[ Buau Zombie ]** 

Monster Level=Based on previous Rarity=16 Agility=Half of previous Movement Speed=Half of previous Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Command-based 

Attack Points=/Strike Points/Evasion Points/ Defense Points=Based on previous Life Points/Resistance=Based on previous/Based on previous Mental Points/Resistance=-/Based on previous Special Abilities=Retains previous abilities Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Damage from healing magic Habitat=Various Languages=Based on previous Perception=Pseudo 

These are undead created by the lost spell _Create Buau Zombie_ . Unlike normal zombies, they possess intellect, albeit low, and can make independent decisions and follow the commands of their creator. 

Therefore, they will do their best to obey even abstract commands (for example, sneak into a house and steal something, etc.). They can also use tools such as weapons, armor, etc. 

Unlike zombies, they decay slowly and can work for decades to centuries. Strength and life force are kept at their original scores, but dexterity, agility, and intelligence are reduced to half of what their scores were before death, and mental power is completely lost. All magic and bard skill spellsong abilities cannot be used once you become a buau zombie. Attack, defense, etc. are 

214 

performed at their previous level (fighter, thief, etc.). Game masters should be aware of changes due to ability scores (reduced dexterity and agility). Monster level is the same as their previous adventurer level. 

Buau zombies are mindless beings, so spells that cause mental effects on them are ineffective. 

## **[ Skeleton ]** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=10 

Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 

Number=Several to dozens 

Frequency=Frequent 

Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Weapon:8 (1) Strike Points=4 

Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=7/8 (1) 

Mental Points/Resistance=-/9 (2) 

Special Abilities=Bladed weapons cannot critical 

Mental Attack Immunity Not affected by poison and illness Damage from healing magic Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A skeleton, as the name suggests, is a moving skeleton, created by ancient magic or dark magic. Its weapon is usually the one it used before its death. Typically this is a one-handed sword with a shield. In most cases, however, its armor will be worn out and unusable. Due to their characteristic lack of flesh, bladed weapons cannot deal additional critical damage to skeletons. Also, since they have no intelligence, magic that produces mental effects will not work on them. 

## **[ Zombie ]** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=9 Agility=7 Movement Speed=7 Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Barehanded:8 (1) Strike Points=4 

Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=19/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=-/9 (2) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Damage from healing magic 

Habitat=Ruins Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

Zombies, along with skeletons, are representative undead, and are created from corpses by ancient magic and dark magic. However, unlike skeletons, they do not use weapons or armor.  Since they have no intelligence, mental attacks have no effect at all. 

## **[ Ash ]** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=11 Agility=9 Movement Speed=8 Number=Several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Violent Attack Points=- Strike Points=- 

Evasion Points=- Defense Points=- 

Life Points/Resistance=7/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) Special Abilities=Wrap (Evasion target score=10, strike power 10, bonus damage 2) 

Mental attack immunity Weapon immunity Fire immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Damage from healing magic 

Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None 

Perception=Magic 

An ash is an undead created from the ashes of a burned corpse using ancient magic and dark magic.  It’s usually spread out on the ground like sand, but if something living approaches it, it will suddenly fly up as if blown by the wind, take the form of a human, and attack. Due to the ash's physical characteristics, attacks with weapons, etc. cannot be used at all. Also, since it's already been burned once, fire has no effect on it at all. It‘s possible to damage an ash's life points with damage magic other than fire-type. Also, since it does not have a mind, attacks that affect the mind are also ineffective. 

An ash's attacks also do not deal direct damage.  The Ash wraps itself 

around the target creature and attacks it. The target of the attack must make a success roll using _adventurer level + agility bonus_ as the baseline score, and if they fail, they will inhale a portion of the ash. Every round thereafter, they must make a life force resistance roll against target score 10. As long as you continue to fail, you will suffer strike power 10 damage and 2 plus bonus damage 2 every round. This damage can only be reduced by adventurer level. 

If you cast the spirit magic _Missile Protection_ , you can protect yourself from being enwrapped by the ash. However, this magic will not work in time for characters who are already enwrapped by the ash. If you cast _Turn Undead_ and the result is _crumble away_ , the ash will cease activity. 

## **[ Ghoul ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=10 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:10 (3)/Claw:11 (4)/ Claw:11 (4) 

Strike Points=9+poison/8+poison/8+poison Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Special Abilities=Poison (Toxicity score 10, paralysis, lasts 1 day) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Damage from healing magic Habitat=Ruins, graveyards Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

Ghouls are undead who scavenge and eat corpses. However, perhaps because _killing and eating are the same thing_ , they often attack living things as well.  Ghouls have paralyzing poison in their claws and fangs, and a character who suffers damage must succeed on a life force resistance roll against target score 10 or they will be paralyzed at the end of the next round. This paralysis lasts for one day. 

215 

## **[ Sin ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=14 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several 

Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:11 (4) Strike Points=10 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=16/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Special Abilities=Life point regenerate (3 points per round) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic 

Habitat=Various 

Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

Sin are a very special type of undead. A soul of someone who was greatly possessive in life will become undead as a sin. They remain in this world, trying to monopolize what they were attached to even after death. Their appearance remains the same as when they were alive, and other than their abnormally pale skin and cloudy eyes, they are no different from a normal human (however, their clothes may be tattered depending on the number of years since their death). 

A sin usually refuses to leave the side of whatever it's attached to, and will attack anything that tries to take it away. Sin have no intelligence. They are driven only by an insatiable desire for possession, and are, so to speak, the dead who have fallen into madness and cannot be saved. 

## **[ Wight ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate 

Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Claws:12 (5) Strike Points=9+mental damage Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) Special Abilities=Steal mental power (Strike power 10, bonus damage 4) Normal weapon immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Damage from healing magic Habitat=Ruins, graveyards Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

Wights are undead that possess people and feed on the energy of others. Normal weapons have no effect against this monster.  To wound a wight, you need a silver or magical weapon. A wight's weapon is its sharp claws, and those who are dealt damage will have their life energy drained at the same time. If a wight's attack hits, your life force will suffer damage as well as your mental power. The damage dealt to mental power is merely the result of a strike power 10 strike roll plus bonus damage 4. For this, you can only reduce the damage with your character's adventurer level. Those whose mental power is reduced to 0 by this attack will die immediately and will then be _revived_ as a new wight 24 hours later. 

## **[ Haunt ]** 

A haunt is a being such a ghost or a vengeful spirit. These are broadly classified into three types: ghosts, specters, and phantoms, but they are collectively called haunts. 

Haunts are souls that have remained in this world because they have unfinished business, or held a strong grudge against others in life. They then complain about their regrets and grudges to any third party they happen to encounter. If you can clear up those lingering regrets and grudges, they will cease to exist. A special case, however, is when one resents its own death itself and harbors hatred toward all living things. Such haunts are always hostile and attack all creatures they encounter, with intent to kill. 

Haunts have a minimum monster level of 5, but if they had a higher adventurer level in life, or if they died harboring a particularly strong grudge, their level will be higher. 

A special ability common to all haunts is _possess_ . This is the act of taking 

over the body of a living being and using it for one's own purposes. If a haunt finds that a creature it comes into contact with does not sympathize with its feelings, it may attempt to possess them. The target of the possession must attempt a mental power resistance roll. If you fail, your body will be taken over. When a haunt takes over your body, it can use your character's abilities in addition to its own previous skills. Once you successfully resist, there is no danger of being possessed by the same haunt again. There’s also 6th level holy magic called _Exorcism_ . If you cast this magic, you will be freed from the haunt’s possession. If a body is destroyed after being possessed, the haunt will become a phantom and be bound in place. 

## **Ghost** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=14 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One, rarely multiple depending on the situation Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly, however, some are extremely adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:12 (5) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=Possess (Resist target score=12) 

Has previous skills Bladed weapons cannot critical (Skeleton type) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Habitat=Various 

Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

A ghost is a moving being whose corpse still holds a lingering grudge. Depending on how long ago they died, they can look like zombies (rotting corpses) or skeletons (moving skeletons). Their strength varies considerably depending on which abilities they had in life. The scores listed here are averages. All ability scores will be the same as previous, except for mental power. 

216 

Mental power is the only one that’s _previous + 6_ . They have all the skills they had previously. Those who had rune master skills can use magic of that level and magic power. However, they cannot use holy magic (but they _can_ use dark magic).  Also, to use ancient magic, they will still need a magical catalyst (such as a magic wand). 

If a ghost's corpse is destroyed, it will always attempt to _possess_ someone nearby.  If this fails, it’ll become a phantom (see below) and be bound in place. Even after becoming a phantom, it’ll attempt to possess if given the chance. 

When its lingering regrets and grudges are cleared, or when its mental points are reduced to 0 or less due to a _Shade_ , etc. the ghost will vanish, leaving only a crumbled corpse behind. 

When attacking a ghost in the form of a skeleton with a weapon, you cannot deal additional critical damage with a bladed weapon. 

## **Specter** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=14 

Agility=24 Movement Speed=24 (air) Number=One, rarely multiple depending on the situation 

Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly, however, some are extremely adversarial Attack Points=-  Strike Points=Evasion Points=Defense Points=Life Points/Resistance=-/Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=Possess (Resist target score=12) 

Has previous skills 

Physical attacks have no effect Sleepless 

## Habitat=Various 

## Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

A specter is a very troublesome entity, a grudge that has lost its physical body and remains in this world. The faint, transparent appearance it had in life takes on the form of a hazy shadow. Since it does not have a physical body, attacks such as weapons and damage magic are ineffective, and the only effective 

countermeasure is magic that has a mental effect.  Those who had rune master skills previously can use magic. However, holy magic cannot be used. A magical catalyst is not required when using ancient magic. Also, after performing _possession_ , they can freely use the skills they had previously. 

When a specter's regrets or grudges are cleared, or when its mental points are reduced to 0 or less due to _Shade_ , etc. it’ll vanish. 

## **Phantom** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=14 Agility=24 Movement Speed=0 Number=One, rarely multiple depending on the situation 

Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly, however, some are extremely adversarial Attack Points=- Strike Points=- 

Evasion Points=- Defense Points=Life Points/Resistance=-/Mental Points/Resistance=-/13 (6) Special Abilities=Possess (Resist target score=12) 

Most attacks immunity 

## Habitat=Various 

Languages=Those previous Perception=Magic 

A phantom is a being who by now is merely a grudge bound to a specific place, object, etc. They have almost no power to interfere with others, but it’s impossible to counter them through normal means. Even _Turn Undead_ has no effect on Phantoms. Only _Exorcism_ and _Save Soul_ can be expected to be effective. 

A phantom's appearance is the same as a specter.  It can also communicate its intentions while disappearing.  At this time, it may cause rapping sounds or poltergeist phenomena. 

A phantom has lost all of the skills it had previously. After _possessing_ , it can only use the abilities of that body. 

If you clear up its regrets and grudges, the phantom will vanish. 

## **[ Jack-O-Lantern ]** 

Monster Level=6 

Rarity=11 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=18 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:13 (6) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=14/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=21/15 (8) Special Abilities=6th level dark magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=16/9) 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Habitat=Above swamps or ponds Languages=Regional Perception=Pseudo 

A jack-o-lantern looks like a _pumpkin_ , the vegetable, with a yellowishorange face about 30 cm in diameter, that floats in the air. Its face has semicircular eyes and a mouth that arch downward, and a triangular nose that points upward, as if cut with a knife.  There are no eyeballs, and an evil red light can be seen deep inside the eye sockets.  They often float around above swamps and ponds, and if they spot prey, they'll attack straight away. Like ghouls, they live by scavenging dead flesh, but perhaps this does not satisfy their hunger, as they frequently attack the living. 

This monster has dark magic abilities. 

## **[ Dullahan ]** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=14 Agility=16 Movement Speed=16 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:14 (7) Strike Points=14 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=20/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=20/16 (9) Special Abilities=Summon chariot Summon headless horse Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Habitat=Unknown, appears in towns Languages=Regional Perception=Pseudo 

217 

A dullahan is a ghost that appears as a headless knight wearing armor. The armor shines as if it were freshly made. A dullahan carries a one-handed sword and no shield, but it's no wonder, as it carries its own head in its spare hand! 

A Dullahan rides a chariot pulled by a headless horse (the horse is called a headless horse and the chariot is called a chariot of dullahan) and appears late at night at the door of the house it's aiming for. Then, it knocks on the door. When a resident opens the door and looks out, the dullahan points inside the house and prophesizes _death_ , then leaves. Around one year later, the dullahan reappears at the house, chooses one person in the house, and kills them. 

A dullahan can summon its chariot and headless horse at any time and in any place. However, one (?) dullahan has only one chariot and two headless horses, and if these are defeated, they cannot be summoned again. 

You can avoid a death prophesied by a dullahan by killing it the first or second time it appears. It’s no use for those who have received the prophecy of death to move away. The dullahan will always appear at the place you moved to (or to one of the places moved to, if the residents have split up and moved to different places), even if it's on the sea, or in a room that's been walled off on all sides....... 

A dullahan can only be wounded by silver or magical weapons. 

## **Chariot of Dullahan** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=14 Agility=16 Movement Speed=30/30 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Ram:14 (7) Strike Points=15 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=30/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=-/12 (5) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity 

Certain weapons resistant Mental attack immunity Certain magic immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Unknown, appears with (or summoned by) dullahan Languages=None Perception=None 

A chariot ridden by a dullahan, which has the ability to fly. The chariot can also attack while moving up to a maximum of 90 meters in one round. Also, it can _hit-and-run_ different opposing characters again and again. A dullahan riding and controlling a chariot cannot attack on its own at the same time (because it’s pulling the reins with one hand and holding its head in the other). Headless horses also cannot attack while pulling a chariot. 

A chariot can only be dealt damage by silver or magical weapons. Furthermore, additional critical damage cannot be dealt by _swords_ , _spears_ , _clubs_ , _bows_ , _crossbows_ , or _barehanded (with magic cast)_ . Criticals can occur as usual with _axes_ , _maces_ , _flails_ , _slings_ , _rocks_ , and _warhammers_ . 

In the case of magic, _cold-type_ and _poison gas-type_ magic is completely ineffective, but other damage magic are effective. _Turn Undead_ has no effect. Also, healing magic cannot deal damage. 

To attack a dullahan aboard a chariot, you must suffer a -2 penalty to attack power. You can attack a headless horse that is pulling a chariot normally. 

When its master dullahan is defeated, or when any one of the headless horses pulling it are defeated, the chariot loses the ability to act. 

## **Headless Horse** 