# 5.3 Spellsongs

the world. It only appears on the market when a character discovers it, or has already discovered it, through an adventure (which means it is no longer a lost spell). 

became common runes, it’s obvious that thieves would use them to commit evil deeds. In such cases, please make sure to make a decision such as _The sorcerers' guild would never allow them on the market because they'd bring down the reputation of magic and sorcerers_ . 

For detailed effects of these, please refer to the ancient magic of the same name (see Table 5-9: Common Runes). 

Also, when creating a new common rune, its mental power consumption is the same as the base mental power cost of ancient magic, and the price should be 

The game master may add other common runes at their discretion. However, if magic such as _Unlock_ , etc. 

## **Spellsongs** 

## **5.3** 

same way as magic. However, instead of magic power, the baseline score is _bard skill level + mental power bonus (_ _**not** intelligence bonus!)_ . 

A **spellsong** is a song with magical power that was created during the ancient kingdom period. Those with the bard skill can use magic, although weak, by singing these spellsongs. 

Using spellsongs does _not_ consume a bard's mental power. Also, the effect of a spellsong _cannot_ be expanded. 

However, bards are never called rune masters. This is because compared to the runes used by rune masters, spellsongs are only a superficial imitation. On the other hand, even grassrunners who have no magical background can use spellsongs, because they only need to prepare the superficial form. 

A spellsong remains in effect as long as the bard sings it. However, once the song is interrupted, the effect disappears. As long as a bard is singing a spellsong, they cannot take any other actions and cannot move more than 3 meters in one round. However, unlike _focus_ , it’s _not_ interrupted by damage dealt to life force or mental power (unless, of course, you fall unconscious as a result of the damage). Resistance rolls against spellsongs are generally made only once at the beginning of the song (depending on the spellsong, they may be on the fourth round). Once you successfully resist, you do not need to make any further resistance rolls and will not suffer from the effect, even if the spellsong continues. 

To use a spellsong, you must play an instrument. This instrument must be unique to each bard, and the spellsong cannot be used when playing another instrument. Furthermore, you must sing the lyrics in high ancient at the same time. However, it doesn't matter if you don't know the meaning, as long as you know the _lyrics_ by heart. Also, if you choose a _flute_ as your instrument, you can use the spellsong _without_ having to sing the lyrics. 

Basically, the spellsong takes effect on everyone who hears the bard's performance. In other words, it affects both friends _and_ enemies. However, it has no effect on those who are _unable_ to hear. You can learn _one_ spellsong per bard level. A bard chooses which spellsong they want to learn. Every time your level goes up, you have to learn a new spellsong. 

## **5.3.1 Spellsong List** 

The types and effects of spellsongs are shown below. 

On the list, spellsongs with the note that says _mind_ are spellsongs that affect the mind of the listener. These can be considered in the same way as magic that 

When a bard uses the ability of a spellsong, you resolve the effect in the 

around _mental power consumed x 1000 gamels_ as a guideline. 

## **Filling out the Character Sheet** 

Characters who obtain common runes by paying money, etc. must write the common runes they own in the designated field ( _Common Runes_ ) on their character sheet. 

belongs to _mind_ explained under 5.1.9: Magic Types (see p. 63). In other words, each one _counters (overpowers):_ and cannot take an effect at the same time as magic or other spellsongs that also belong to _mind_ . 

## **Early Bird (Mind)** 

This spellsong has the effect of waking up sleeping creatures. At the same time, as long as this song continues, listening creatures will not be able to sleep. 

## **Curiosity (Mind)** 

This spellsong has the effect of arousing the curiosity of those who hear it. The resistance roll is made on the fourth round after the song begins (count the _beginning_ of the song as the _first_ round, and make the roll when the bard's _action order_ occurs on the _fourth_ round). Those who fail to resist will be tempted to catch a glimpse of the performer. The result is that they'll come out of their hiding place and reveal themselves to the performer. It has no effect on those who can already see the performer. 

## **Summon Small Animals (Mind)** 

This spell has the effect of summoning specific small animals nearby. You can summon any hand-sized mammals or birds (mice, squirrels, small cats, small birds, etc.). When this spellsong begins, all small animals 

109

within earshot of the song will gather around the bard. It takes about 18 rounds to gather. If the summoned small animals are attacked, the effect of the spellsong will be broken and they will all run away. 

## **Sing (Mind)** 

Anyone who hears this spellsong will start singing the same lyrics along with the bard's song. There’s no need to remember the lyrics. However, it has _no_ effect on creatures that do _not_ sing. Those affected will not be restricted in their actions, but as long as the spellsong continues, they will _also_ be singing and will not be able to cast magic. Of course, they can't even converse, and they cannot use spellsongs or common runes. 

## **Dance (Mind)** 

Those who hear this spellsong will begin to move their limbs and dance according to the melody on their own. Those affected suffer a -4 penalty to attack power and evasion speed. Ancient magic and spirit magic cannot be cast. Since you can't use your musical instrument, you can't use spellsongs either. You will also be unable to use most skills’ abilities. 

## **Charm (Mind)** 

This spellsong has the effect of charming those who hear it. Those who are, are not charmed by the bard him or herself, but rather charmed by their singing voice and performance. As long as the spellsong continues, those who are charmed will listen to the song in ecstasy. However, if you suffer physical or mental damage, you can make another resistance roll. 

With this spellsong, a bard can make those they charm take specific actions. What you want them to do must be carefully woven into the lyrics. This weaving of lyrics must be in a language that is understandable to those who hear it (conversely, it does _not_ have to be in high ancient). If forced to perform such an action, the charmed one can attempt 

## **Table 5-10: Requiem** 

|2D|Result|
|---|---|
|2|No efect.|
|3-4|Movement slows down while the song continues. -1 to attack points and evasion points.|
|5|Movement slows down while the song continues. -2 to attack points and evasion points.|
|6|Movement slows down while the song continues. -3 to attack points and evasion points.|
|7-8|Run away. If this is not possible, -3 to attack points and evasion points while the song continues.|
|9|Run away. If this is not possible, cannot act while the song continues.|
|10-11|Cannot act while the song continues.|
|12|Undead crumble away.|



take part in the effect of this spellsong must remain completely relaxed for the duration of the performance. 

a resistance roll again If the resist is successful, not only does this save you from having to take the action, but _also_ breaks you free from the spellsong's charm effect completely. 

The bard singing the spellsong _cannot_ recover their _own_ life force. 

If you are using a flute as your instrument, you can use this spellsong, but you _cannot_ make anyone take any actions. 

## **March (Mind)** 

This spellsong has the effect of making the listener act in accordance with the rhythm. All those who fail to resist will act simultaneously as long as the song continues. Regardless of their original agility, everyone's action order will be the same. You _cannot_ intentionally delay your action. The bard can freely decide the action order (in the range of 0-24). However, only the action order changes, _not_ the agility. Therefore, evasion speed (points), etc. are _not_ affected. 

## **Nostalgia (Mind)** 

This is a spellsong that evokes feelings of nostalgia in the hearts of those who hear it. The effect begins on the fourth round after starting. Those who fail to resist will feel the urge to return to their roost and leave. However, it has _no_ effect on those who do not _have_ a roost. The same applies if the place where the person is listening to the spellsong _is_ their roost. 

The effect of this song lasts for one hour even after the spellsong is no longer heard. However, if the person returns to their roost within one hour, the effect will vanish at that point. 

## **Morale (Mind)** 

Those who hear this spell will be able to muster up the courage within their own hearts and fight bravely against the enemy. The resulting check score will be attack power (points) plus 1. 

## **Peace (Mind)** 

This spellsong has the opposite effect of _Morale_ , causing those who hear it to lose their will to fight. Those affected suffer a -1 penalty to attack power (points). 

## **Lullaby (Mind)** 

This is a spellsong that puts the listener to sleep. Once it starts, the effect begins on the fourth round (resistance rolls are made at this point), and the spell is complete after 12 rounds. If the performance is interrupted _before_ it is completed, the effect of the spellsong will disappear at that point, but once the spellsong _is_ completed, you will enter a natural state of sleep, so there is no need to play it any further. Of course, if 

## **Healing** 

Every time you listen to this spellsong for one hour, you can recover 1 point of life force (points). If you interrupt the spellsong midway through, there will be no effect. Those who wish to 

110

someone wakes you up, such as by shaking your body, etc. you will wake up immediately. 

## **Requiem** 

With a song that mourns the souls of the dead, it has the effect of weakening the undead. The effect begins on the fourth round after starting the spellsong. For undead that fail to resist, roll 2D and look at Table 5-10: Requiem to determine the effect it has on them. 

This song also works to prevent the dead from becoming undead. If this spellsong is sung to the deceased for over an hour during their funeral, the deceased will _never_ become undead. _Create Undead_ , etc. will have _no_ effect on deceased who are mourned in this way, and even those who died after their mental power was stolen by a wight or an undead knight, will _never_ become a wight. 

## **Resistance** 

This spellsong activates the listener's physical and mental functions, giving them +1 to life force and mental power, as well as the resistance rolls of each. 

## **Restore Mental Power (Mind)** 

Every time you listen to this spell for one hour, you can recover 1 point of mental power. If you interrupt the spellsong midway through, there will be no effect. Those who wish to take part in the effect of this spellsong must remain completely relaxed for the duration of the performance. 

The bard singing the spellsong _cannot_ recover their own mental power. 

## **Vibrato** 

This spell is effective on objects that break due to vibrations, such as thin glass, ceramics, etc. These objects will shatter on the fourth round after the spellsong begins. 

**==> picture [166 x 141] intentionally omitted <==**

## **Filling out the Character Sheet** 

Characters with the bard skill write the names of the spellsongs they have learned in the designated field ( _Spellsongs_ ) on their character sheet. 

**==> picture [285 x 578] intentionally omitted <==**

111