who fail to resist will immediately suffer damage equal to a strike power 20 strike roll plus 6 points of bonus damage. 

## **Maligdorai** 

## Monster Level=7 

Rarity=15 Agility=14 Movement Speed=15/20 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Needle x 2: 14 (7) Strike Points=16x2 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=20/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=25/17 (10) Special Abilities=Illusion (Resist target score=17, mental damage=strike power 10, bonus damage 7) 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

The Maligdorai is a daemon whose upper body resembles an owl and lower body the hind legs of a goat, and its entire body is covered in feathers. As well as wings on its back, it has jointless tentacle-like viscera sprouting from the base of each wing. Its arms come to sharp gimlet-shaped points, and it performs physical attacks by stabbing with them. 

A maligdorai’s most frightening ability is _illusion_ . The maligdorai can show illusions to surrounding creatures, dealing damage to their minds (these illusions have no effect on monsters that don't have mental points). When a maligdorai uses this illusion ability, those being targeted must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17 at the beginning of the round. If the target succeeds, they will escape the effect and can act freely, but if the target fails to resist, they will see an illusion of what they fear as an enemy deep within their heart attacking them, and as a result will suffer _strike power 10 + bonus damage 7_ damage to their mental power. They will also be unable to take any actions. 

Those who lose all their mental power due to an illusory attack will from then on be turned into a being that can 

be freely manipulated by the maligdorai. To recover from this, you must defeat their master, the maligdorai. Those being manipulated cannot recover their mental power through sleep or through magic such as _Transfer Mental Power_ . Also, spells that affect the mind have no effect on those in this state. 

A maligdorai can also show illusions to multiple creatures within its vision at the same time, but it must focus in order to perform the illusions. If its focus is interrupted or it’s unable to focus due to making physical attacks, suffering damage, etc., then it cannot maintain its illusions. Illusions cannot be used in the round immediately after suffering damage. 

Conversely, while the maligdorai is performing an illusion, the target must make a resistance roll against the illusion each round. 

## **[ Greater Daemons ] Doppelganger** 

Monster Level=10 

Rarity=16 Agility=14 Movement Speed=18 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Claws: 18 (11) 

Strike Points=20 

Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=14 Life Points/Resistance=34/21 (14) Mental Points/Resistance=28/20 (13) Special Abilities=7th level ancient magic (magic intensity/magic power=16/9) Shapeshift 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient, languages of the person it shapeshifts into Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

The doppleganger, which is in the same family as the doubleburg, albeit a greater species, has the appearance of a 3 meter tall giant with an entirely black body. Its has a bright red straight open mouth, but no other features besides that. A doppelganger can copy the appearance, abilities, memories, etc. of an opponent by observing them. At a glance, all they can capture is their appearance (including their belongings). If they 

observe them for one minute, they can imitate their tone of speech and gestures exactly. Then, if they observe them for over one hour, they will be able to completely copy their abilities and memories. To shapeshift or shapeshift back requires one full round. 

A doppelganger who has copied the abilities and memories of an opponent can use _all_ of their abilities. If they transform into a dragon, they can breathe fire, and if they transform into a 10th level fighter, they can fight with their attack power, strike power, and bonus damage. However, they cannot use holy magic or dragon roar magic (they _can_ use other magic). In addition, a doppelganger can use its own ability, ancient magic. 

If combat occurs without them shapeshifting, a doppelganger will fight primarily using ancient magic. 

## **13.2.12** 

## **Humans** 

## **[ Normal Man ]** 

Monster Level=0 

Rarity=- (Everyone knows them) Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One to hundreds Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Farming Tools:7 (0) Strike Points=3 

Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=2 Life Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Ordinary people such as villagers will not become enemies of adventurers. The data here is for when villagers, etc. with no fighting ability are drawn into combat. 

230 



## **[ Bandit ]** 

Bandits are those who build strongholds in the fields and hills, and make the surrounding area their territory, where they steal from passersby (mainly merchants). 

## **Henchman** 

Monster Level=1 Rarity=5 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Bandit henchmen should generally be at about this level. 

## **Leader** 

Monster Level=2 Rarity=5 Agility=11 Movement Speed=11 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon: 9 (2) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=11/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=11/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Leader-class bandits that control several henchmen. 

## **Chief** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=5 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 

Life Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads 

Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This data is for a chief class, who leads about 20 followers. If the bandits are large enough in scale, there will be more than one chief class with equal power. Please consider the standard ratio of _henchmen_ : _leaders_ : _chiefs_ to be 16 : 4 : 1. If the scale reaches 80 people or more, there will be an even stronger boss. This boss's scores should equal _the total scores of a chief +1_ . In this case, the ratio of _henchmen_ : _leaders_ : _chiefs_ : _bosses_ should be 64 : 16 : 4 : 1. Every time the scale of the bandits grows 4 times larger, there will be someone stronger to command them (add +1 to each score). For a group of bandits with 300 to 400 members, the leader's monster level should be 5, for more than 1000, it should be 6, for more than 5000, it should be 7......etc. 

## **[ Soldier ]** 

The soldiers listed here are those who are responsible for maintaining public order in the city and protecting the royal castle. Therefore, you normally won’t fight them. 

## **Normal Soldier** 

Monster Level=1 Rarity=5 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to dozens Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=2/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns, villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

The ordinary soldiers which are the large majority. This is also the standard of the _resident_ class dispatched to rural villages. 

## **Senior Soldier** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=5 Agility=13 Movement Speed=13 Number=One to several 

Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=13/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=13/11 (4) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns, villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

These are soldiers who guard major locations or command small groups. Most of these soldiers were promoted from normal soldiers and are also much older. 

## **Knight** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=5 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 12 (5) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns Languages=Regional, common Perception=Five senses 

These are soldiers in the position of leading dozens of people. They're made up of elites from the nobility, and soldiers who've been recognized for their skill. This level of skill is required to serve in the king's royal guard (though this depends on the country). 

## **Knight Leader** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=5 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon:14 (7) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=15/15 (8) 

231

Mental Points/Resistance=15/15 (8) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns 

Languages=Regional, common Perception=Five senses 

These soldiers are mainly elites of noble background, and command units of 100 men. Some of them are even higher level. By making their monster level higher, you can increase each score by the same amount you increased the monster level. 

## **[ Dark Priest Warrior ]** 

Priests who serve the wicked gods (mainly Phalaris) will often appear as enemies of the player characters. Since the teachings of the dark gods are what one would call _evil_ , this is likely unavoidable. Many are also trained as warriors as part of the doctrine of Phalaris. 

## **Beginner Priest** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=10 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Special Abilities=1st level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=10/3) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This is a so-called _small fry_ class enemy. They rarely face adventurers alone, and are often led by a stronger priest. 

## **Priest** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=10 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:10 (3) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 

Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Special Abilities=3rd level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This is a priest class that has some degree of contact with the dark gods. Although seldom seen in the light of day, they are numerous in the underworld of Forcelia, often secretly planning and carrying out nefarious schemes. 

## **High Priest** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=10 Agility=16 Movement Speed=16 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:12 (5) Strike Points=11 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Special Abilities=5th level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Those who reach the bigwig-class who plot great evil acts will tend to have a much deeper connection with the dark gods and can use powerful magic. There's even cases of a priest of this class ruling the entirety of a small village, unnoticed by the authorities. 

## **13.2.13** 

## **Other** 

## **[ Lycanthrope ]** 

A Lycanthrope is a monster with the ability to change from human to beast form. When in human form, they may acquire and use various skills, including magic, just like an adventurer. When in beast form, they cannot act intelligently, but rather follow their instincts and go on killing sprees. Magic and skills cannot be used. The game master can decide on a lycanthrope’s abilities while in human form (however, it should basically  only 

have acquired skills up to its monster level), or use the fixed scores for a normal man as given at page 230 (please set the life points high). 

Shapeshifting is affected by the waxing and waning of the moon. Compare the number of days since the new moon with _2D + 3_ at nighttime or _2D + 9_ in the daytime. When the number of days is 16 or more, compare it with _30 - the number of days_ (the waxing and waning of the moon in Forcelia is one cycle every 30 days). When the score is equal to or less than this, the lycanthrope will always enter beast form (the lycanthrope will always enter beast form on nights when the moon is full = 15 days). 

Even when it's not, a lycanthrope can transform into a beast at their own will. 

Lycanthropes have the ability to summon and control other beasts of their kind in their surroundings (wolves for werewolves, bears for werebears, etc.). Their habitat depends on the type of beast they shapeshift into. There may be some hiding their true identity and living among humans in towns and villages, but when their time comes, they're likely to take odd actions to hide their transformations. 

Lycanthropy is a type of infectious illness, and those who are wounded by a lycanthrope in beast form are at risk of becoming a lycanthrope of the same species. See p. 166 for details on this illness. 

## **Werewolf** 

Monster Level=4 Rarity=8 Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:11 (4) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into wolf Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests 

232

## Languages=Regional 

## Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A werewolf is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a wolf. 

## **Werebear** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=10 Agility=14 Movement Speed=21 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Claw:13 (6)/ Claw:13 (6) Strike Points=15/14/14 Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Strangle:14 (7) Strike Points=15/13 

Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=26/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into bear 

Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests Languages=Regional 

## Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A werebear is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a bear. Like a bear, it attacks with a bear hug (strangling). 

## **Weretiger** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=11 Agility=21 Movement Speed=25 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial 

Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Claw:13 (6)/ Claw:13 (6) Strike Points=15/14/14 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=24/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into tiger 

Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A weretiger is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a tiger. 

## **[ Redcap ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:10 (3) Strike Points=9 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Special Abilities=Infection by gaze (Intensity 5) Habitat=Uncertain Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

A redcap is a patient suffering from the disease of the same name, **red cap** , and whose depth has reached 2 or greater. See p. 166 for details on this disease. 

## **13.3** 

## **Converting Character Data to Monster Data** 

Using the rules presented here, a game master can convert data created as a _character_ into the format of a _monster_ . There are two advantages to doing this. 

## **[ 1. The number of times the game master has to roll dice during combat will be drastically reduced ]** 

The game master will be freed from the labor of rolling dice, and will be able to manage enemy data in combat more easily. It’ll also give you more time to provide guidance to players who are unfamiliar with the rules. 

This is especially effective when there are many enemies. 

**[ 2. Enemy strike rolls can no longer critical ]** 

If an enemy's strike roll is a critical, resulting in heavy damage or even death, the player may feel frustrated that they've been _killed by a roll of the dice_ . This is because it's a process that cannot be dealt with by the player. If you change the enemy character's data to that of a _monster_ , the damage will be a fixed score called _strike points_ , so this kind of frustration should be less frequent. 

So, let us show you how. 

Adventurer level adapts directly to _monster level_ . 

_Rarity_ seems unnecessary, so we’ll omit it. 

_Agility_ and _movement speed_ use the character's _agility_ ability score as it is. 

_Attack points_ are the character's _attack power + 7_ . 

For _strike points_ , apply strike power to _Table 13-1: Key Number = Expected Equivalents_ , then add bonus damage to the result. Critical target is normally 10, 

**Table 13-1: Key Number = Expected Equivalents** 

|Critical Target 9|0-1|2-5|6-9|10-13|14-18|19-22|23-26|27-31|32-35|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Critical Target 10|0-2|3-7|8-12|13-17|18-22|23-27|28-32|33-37|38-42|
|Critical Target 11|0-3|4-9|10-14|15-20|21-25|26-31|32-36|37-42|43-47|
|Critical Target 12|0-4|5-10|11-16|17-22|23-27|28-33|34-39|40-45|46-50|
|No Critical|0-5|6-11|12-17|18-23|24-29|30-35|36-41|42-47|48-50|
|Expected Value|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9|10|



233

but if using the optional rule _16.2: Weapon and Armor Modifiers_ (see p. 262) to have variation in a weapon’s critical target, please look at the appropriate column. 

_Evasion points_ are the character's _evasion speed + 8_ . 

For _defense points_ , apply defense power to the _Key Number = Expected_ 

_Equivalents_ table (No Critical), then add adventurer level to the result. 

_Life points_ and _mental points_ use the ability scores _life force_ and _mental power_ as they are. 

_Life point resistance_ and _mental point resistance_ are _each resistance +8_ . 

The reason evasion points are calculated with +8 is because in combat 

between characters, if the attacker and the evader have the same final scores, the attack will _fail_ , but between a character and a _monster_ , the attack will _hit_ . This is the same reason why resistance score is calculated with +8. 

## **13.4** 

## **Representing Special Monsters with Character Data** 

Among monsters, there are some that have inherently strong individual differences. Take, for example, dark elves. These monsters, like adventurers, come in a variety of strengths, so it’d be more natural to describe them by their ability scores and skill levels like adventurers. 

Here, in order to represent monsters such as featherfolk, mermen, dark elves, noble lizardmen, and centaurs as characters, we’ll show how to calculate the sub-ability scores of each monster ( _Table 13-2:  Determining Monster SubAbility Scores_ ). 

**Table 13-2: Determining Monster Sub-Ability Scores** 

|Sub-Ability<br>Score|Featherfolk|Merman|Dark Elf|Noble<br>Lizardman|Centaur|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|A<br>B<br>C<br>D<br>E<br>F<br>G<br>H|2D<br>1D+6<br>2D<br>2D<br>1D+3<br>2D<br>1D+2<br>2D+6|2D<br>1D+6<br>2D<br>2D<br>1/2D<br>2D<br>2D<br>1D+6|1D+6<br>1D+6<br>1D+6<br>1D+6<br>1D<br>1/2D<br>1D+4<br>1D+6|2D<br>1D+3<br>2D<br>2D<br>2D<br>2D+6<br>2D<br>2D|2D<br>2D<br>2D<br>2D<br>1D+6<br>1D+6<br>1D+6<br>1D|



Note: A dark elf can add +4 to mental power resistance due to the blessings of the dark gods. A noble lizardman's entire body is covered in scales which adds +5 to defense power. 

These rules were _not_ designed with the idea of playing monsters as characters in mind. Please be careful. 

## **13.5** 

## **Monster Level and Adventurer Level** 

A monster's monster level is a rough guide to its strength when it appears in a scenario. A monster level’s score is basically set so that if it's equal to a character's adventurer level, the character will be stronger. If they're 1-2 levels higher, you’ll be evenly matched, and if they’re 3 levels higher, they’ll be a formidable enemy. 

When introducing them into a scenario, assume that enemies of the same or 1 level lower than a character's adventurer level will appear frequently, while an enemy of 2-3 levels greater will appear at the climax. 

**Table 13-3: Monster Level/Event Scale Comparisons** 

|Level 1-2|It's no big deal. Just a small problem in a small village|
|---|---|
|Level 2-4|A crisis in a small village. Cue the novice adventurers.|
|Level 5-6|Too spicy for a novice adventurer|
|Level 7-8|A difcult enemy unless you're a moderate adventurer|
|Level 9-10|A city-wide crisis|
|Level 11-13|A nation-wide crisis|
|Level 14-15|An Alecrast-wide crisis|



Of course, combat balance will vary depending on the special abilities of the monsters and the composition of the 

234