# 6.4 Sage Skill

## **Sage Skill** 

## **6.4** 

The sage skill represents a comprehensive understanding and depth of knowledge in all academic fields. Academic fields in _Sword World_ are undifferentiated, and owners of this skill are skilled in all disciplines. Many sorcerers have this skill. There is no requirement that you have to have the sage skill and the sorcerer skill at the same time, but if you _do_ acquire the sage skill and the sorcerer skill at the same time, you will receive a _bonus_ on experience points consumed. For more information, please refer to Chapter 8: Character Growth (see p. 129). 

can learn to speak or read _one_ new language. 

The player chooses which language to learn, along with whether they will _speak_ or _read_ it. However, _runes_ cannot be chosen. Even in the same language, being able to read and speak is different, so if you want to become proficient in _one_ language, you need _2_ levels of experience. You can also _write_ in any language that you can read and speak. As an optional rule, you can set a target score or difficulty for text or conversations so that it cannot be understood if you fail a success roll. 

The sage skill includes the following abilities: 

There are limitations to learning languages through the sage skill. Characters who cannot read common must _first_ learn how to read common _before_ learning other languages. Then, a character who cannot read low ancient (but _has_ learned common) must learn to read low ancient _before_ learning any other language. If you can read both common _and_ low ancient, you are free to learn subsequent languages. 

- ① Monster Check 

- ② Languages 

- ③ Astrology 

- ④ Knowledge 

- ⑤ Research 

- ⑥ Treasure Appraisal 

- ⑦ Medicines 

## **[** ① **Monster Check [Intelligence]] (Not retriable)** 

For detailed rules regarding languages, please refer to 12.1: Rules Regarding Language (see p. 157). **[** ③ **Astrology [Intelligence] ] (Not retriable)** 

Sages have a wide range of knowledge. This includes knowledge of the various monsters that live in Alecrast. When a sage sees a monster or hears its name, this ability may allow them to discover its true identity. 

From the movement of celestial bodies, you can know the signs of events that will occur in the near future. Signs should be given as rough information about the incident. It's enough to let you know that a king passes away or that a major war is about to happen (you can think of it as just a headline in a newspaper, etc.). However, this ability _only_ allows you to know about events related to the country or the world, and when _no_ events occur, _no_ signs appear. It is entirely up to the game master to decide what kind of sign there is. You can also set a difficulty and ask for a success roll. Solar and lunar eclipses rarely occur 

Each monster has a score called _rarity_ . Using _sage skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score, make a success roll with this rarity as the target score, and if you succeed, you know the monster. 

If the check fails, the character has no knowledge of the monster. Even if the _player_ knows, they must treat it as if they had no prior knowledge. 

## **[** ② **Languages [Intelligence]]** 

Sages can learn different languages depending on their skill level. Each time their sage skill level increases, a character 

in Forcelia, but when they do, they are always a harbinger of something to come. 

## **[** ④ **Knowledge [Intelligence]]** 

## **(Not retriable)** 

The scope of this ability is very wide. It's for checks regarding whether you know or don't know about things in all fields, from trivia to politics to science. 

There are two methods of making checks. One is one where the game master judges whether or not the player knows based on their sage skill level and tells them, without providing a _rarity_ . The other is to provide a _rarity_ for each piece of knowledge, and ask for a check via success roll, similar to _monster check_ . 

Please use whichever method the game master deems appropriate for each situation. 

**==> picture [155 x 325] intentionally omitted <==**

118