# 6.5 Bard Skill

## **[** ⑤ **Research [Intelligence] ]** 

## **[** ⑥ **Treasure Appraisal [Intelligence] ] (Not retriable)** 

**(Not retriable)** 

When a sage fails a success roll on a check such as _monster check_ , _treasure appraisal_ (described below), or _knowledge_ and is unable to figure it out, the sage can later find out by **researching** literature. 

This ability is used to know the value and utility of treasure. The _rarity_ of that treasure becomes the target score for a success roll. For standard ancient kingdom treasure-- many of which are magical items --the target score is around 15. Treat a failed treasure as being unable to _determine_ the treasure's value, _not_ as if you got the value _wrong_ . If the true value is 100 gamels, you will _not_ think that it's worth 10,000 gamels just because you failed the check. However, if the difference from the target score is 6 or greater, there _is_ a possibility of this kind of misunderstanding. 

Research basically takes about one week for each item (this may be increased or decreased at the game master's discretion). During this time, you cannot do much other than research. Also, if you don't have a place with a wealth of literature (the best place is the academy of sages = sorcerers' guild in each city), research itself is impossible. 

If the research is successful, the sage may make another success roll. When something they didn't know (something that failed) becomes a success, the sage has found a description of it in the literature and has access to that knowledge. 

The price value determined by this ability is the price that a connoisseur (or obsessor) would accept, i.e., the _maximum_ price. Alternatively, if it is something that can be used in combat, such as weapons or armor, other adventurers may purchase it. Also, any item can be picked up by a specialty shop for half the appraised value. Basically, these connoisseurs and specialty shops will only exist in large towns. 

## **Bard Skill** 

## **6.5** 

- ② Play Instrument 

Those with the bard skill are knowledgeable about ancient folklore and poetry, and make a living by performing them. Bards don't just play instruments and sing songs, they also know information about strange lands and local legends and folklore. 

- ③ Languages (Spoken) 

- ④ Spellsongs 

- ⑤ Folklore Knowledge 

## **[** ① **Sing [Mental Power] ]** 

This is the art of singing songs. Although they're called songs, unlike modern pop songs, most of them are melodies attached to legends and folklore. Heroic tales and love poems are used as subjects. 

Each bard carries their favorite instrument in hand. Bards are free to choose any instrument, but only _one_ type. If you use other instruments, you _won't_ be able to use abilities that require an instrument. Famous musical instruments include the lyre and the lute 

## **[** ② **Play Instrument [Dexterity]]** 

The bard skill includes the following abilities. 

This is the art of playing a musical instrument. The higher the bard's level, the more skillful they will be at playing an instrument. 

① Sing 

## **[** ⑦ **Medicines [Intelligence]]** 

**((Appraisal only) Not retriable)** 

This ability represents knowledge of poisons and medicines. Sages can appraise unknown medicines and poisons, and can mix magical potions and poisons with various effects. 

When appraising medicines or poisons, a success roll must be made using their rarity as the target score. 

To create medicines or poisons, the game master should set a target score depending on the type, and ask for a success roll check. The target score for a poison which is able to kill people even in small amounts _and_ be tasteless and odorless, is around 20. Regardless of the result or dice roll, you will need materials and at least one week to attempt to create a medicine. You can make up to 10 doses at most. 

In Alecrast, the creation and use of poison is considered _shameful_ and _inhumane_ . Therefore, game masters should _not_ allow PCs to create or use poisons. 

For detailed rules regarding poison, please also refer to 12.2.1: Poisons (see p. 159). 

Bards can earn _bard skill level x bard skill level x 2D_ silver coins by singing and playing an instrument for about an hour in a suitable location (such as a tavern, etc.). 

## **[** ③ **Languages (Spoken)** 

## **[Intelligence] ]** 

This ability is almost the same as the sage skill's ability of the same name, but it _only_ applies to speaking, not reading. In other words, bards can converse in languages other than their native language, but they _cannot_ read (or write, of course) text. Unlike the sage skill, there is _no_ restriction on the languages that can be learned. However, of course, you cannot learn runes. 

119