# 7.2 Merchant Skill

## **Notes on General Skills** 

## **7.1** 

higher your adventurer level, the more qualified you are to be called a hero. In other words, adventurer level can even be called hero level. 

## **The Difference Between General Skills and Adventurer Skills** 

The hunter skill is very similar to the ranger skill. The details will be explained later, but the abilities of the two actually overlap quite a bit, and a good ranger can also become a good hunter. Of course, the opposite is also true. 

Therefore, a good ranger has the potential to be called a hero by the people, but a hunter, no matter how good he is, has a hard time getting people to recognize him as a hero. Of course, being a hunter is also a respectable profession, so you should never look down on it. People with higher levels in general skills should also be given due respect. However, they are not called heroes. They don't even become the protagonist of the story. They are unrelated to these _adventures_ . 

Many of you may be thinking, _Then there's no need to separate the two, right?_ However, you can't do that. This is because the hunter skill and the ranger skill are completely different things. 

How so? 

The reason for this is that the hunter skill is a general skill, while the ranger skill is, as precisely called, an adventurer skill. 

If you understand this mentality, then on the other hand, it would be acceptable to recognize adventurer skills for skills that would be called heroes. For example, the famous playwright William Tell, who was just a hunter, was considered a hero for shooting an apple off his child's head. In such cases, it is okay to grant adventurer skills to masters of general skills. However, basically in _Sword World RPG_ , only those who are masters of adventurer skills are worthy of being called heroes. 

Now, let's explain the difference between general skills and adventurer skills. General skills, so to speak, can be said to be the skills necessary for daily life. Of course, adventurer skills are the necessary skills to live as an adventurer. However, the biggest difference between the two is whether or not you can become a protagonist-- called a hero -- who appears in fantasy novels, etc. by perfecting your skills. In _Sword World RPG_ , adventurer level increases as an adventurer's skill level increases, and the 

## **Merchant Skill** 

## **7.2** 

This is a skill related to trade. Merchants are a class with a lot of freedom in _Sword World_ , and often travel for trade purposes. Among them are peddlers who are always traveling and doing business. Merchants are usually issued a _merchant's pass_ by the king as proof of their status. A person holding this is given the right to open a shop in public. Therefore, if some of the adventurers have this skill, they can also sell the items they obtain from their adventures in shops or on the street. A 

person without this certificate cannot conduct transactions in public. However, you are free to buy, sell, or transfer personal items. 

Even though they're all called merchants, there are many different types of merchants 

For example, some merchants may sell arts and crafts, while others might sell fresh produce, etc. Therefore, merchants are well versed in the art of trading one type of item, and are no different from ordinary people when it 

## **How to Create General Skills** 

There are many general skills. There are probably as many general skills as there are occupations, hobbies, etc. There is no way we can create rules for them one by one, etc. Therefore, we will only introduce the necessary general skills, and leave everything beyond that to each game master. If a game master deems it necessary, please make a general skill into a rule. 

Here's how to do it: 

1. Decide on the purpose of the skill (e.g. we need a skill for fishermen) 

2. Decide on a name for the skill (e.g., it's a fisherman, so we'll call it the fisher skill) 

3. Consider restrictions for using the skill (e.g. fishermen probably don't need any restrictions) 

4. Think about the _abilities_ required for the skill (e.g. A skilled fisherman must be able to identify fish - _fish check_ , be good at swimming - _swim_ , and be able to operate a boat - _small ship steering_ ) 

comes to items outside their specialty. However, the basics of trade are not that different, so it may be useful in some cases. 

Holders of this skill have the following abilities: 

① Value Check 

② Negotiation 

125