# 7.5 Hunter Skill

## **Healer Skill** 

## **7.4** 

Since there's magic in the world of _Sword World_ , medicine has not made much progress. However, there are not that many rune masters, so in most cases it is the job of doctors called **healers** to heal injuries and illnesses. Healers are knowledgeable in basic medicine and herbs, and are able to provide appropriate treatment for injuries and illnesses. Healers are well versed in the following abilities: 

## **[** ② **Treatment [Intelligence]]** 

This is the ability to appropriately treat illnesses and injuries and aid in their recovery. Healers can help a wounded person recover their life force naturally. 

Normally, natural damage recovery is 1 point per day (see p. 54). However, having a healer increases it dramatically. When a healer is nursing, use the Rating Table with healer skill level as the key number. The patient can recover life force equal to the result plus the healer's intelligence bonus. If the result when using the _Rating Table_ is _double ones_ , there will be _no_ recovery at all (the treatment method was poor, and the result was not good). 

- ① First Aid ② Treatment ③ Herbs 

## **[** ① **First-Aid [-] ]** 

This is the same as the ranger skill's ability of the same name. Please refer to the ranger skill. 

It takes at least one hour to use this ability. 

## **Hunter Skill** 

## **7.5** 

⑨ Pre-processing ⑩ Value Check 

The **hunter skill** is the skill needed to hunt. People who own this skill are called hunters, and people called hunters own this skill. Additionally, even those who do not specialize in hunting but do it as a hobby or side job still possess this skill. 

Regarding the _abilities_ from ① to ⑧, ranger has an _ability_ with the same name, and they are exactly the same. 

To use this skill, you are subject to the same equipment restrictions as when using the ranger skill. Also, as mentioned above, the hunter skill is similar to the ranger skill, so please refer to the ranger skill section for overlapping _abilities_ . 

## **[** ⑨ **Pre-processing [Dexterity]]** 

This is the ability to pre-process the prey obtained from hunting so that it can be sold as a product. It’s needed to separate the antlers from the carcasses of animals such as deer, etc. and to strip and tan the hides from prey. You can also use it to take apart and smoke meat. It concerns all other similar acts. If this pre-processing fails, the value of the product will _decrease_ to half of its normal value. For each pre-processing attempt, the game master should set a target score and have the player make a success roll. It may not be difficult to cut off the horns, but tasks like skinning small animals and 

The _abilities_ of the hunter skill are as follows. 

- ① Footprint Tracking 

- ② Find/Sense Trap 

- ③ Remove/Set Trap 

- ④ Stealthy Step 

- ⑤ Camouflage 

- ⑥ Listen 

- ⑦ Plant and Animal Check 

- ⑧ Projectile Use 

Healers also know how to effectively treat illnesses. Detailed rules regarding illnesses can be found under 12.2.2: Illnesses (see p. 164). Please refer to it. 

## **[** ③ **Herbs [Intelligence] ]** 

## **(Not retriable)** 

This is the ability to discern herbs and minerals that are effective in treating illnesses and injuries. Please make a success roll using _rarity_ as the target score. 

This ability is also used when creating medicine by appropriately treating or mixing herbs, etc. 

Please refer to 12.2.3: Herbs (see p. 167) for information on what kinds of herbs are present in Alecrast. 

skillfully smoking meat can be quite difficult. 

## **[** ⑩ **Value Check [Intelligence]] (Not retriable)** 

Unlike rangers, hunters hunt and convert their prey into gold to earn their own income. Therefore, it's no good if you cannot determine the price of the game you've hunted. 

Hunters can see how much their prey and pre-processed products are worth. For prey and pre-processed items, set a difficulty and have them make a success roll. 

Game masters should not set a very high difficulty level for using this _ability_ unless you're trying to catch an extremely difficult animal. 

127