# 7.6 Sailor Skill

## **Sailor Skill** 

## **7.6** 

The **sailor skill** is the skill needed to operate a ship. Owners of this skill are called sailors, and people called sailors own this skill. Also, even if you are not a professional sailor, those who sail as a hobby or a side job still possess this skill. 

## **[** ② **Seamanship** 

## **[Intelligence] ]** 

Sailors have the ability to know direction by looking at the stars on the sea at night, and to identify dangerous areas where reefs are likely to exist. The game master should ask for a success roll check for such actions using _sailor skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. The difficulty or target score is determined by the game master each time. 

The sailor skill is a skill that's useful on a ship, that is, on the water. Therefore, when you want to use some of your _abilities_ , you may be required to wear very light equipment. At that time, you can only wear armor up to cloth or soft leather. 

The _abilities_ of the sailor skill are as follows. 

## **[** ③ **Small Ship Steering** 

## **[Dexterity] ]** 

This is the ability to handle small boats that are moved by poles or oars, and move them as desired. If you're just going straight through calm water, you don't need a success roll. In special cases such as _avoiding collision with an approaching ship_ or _surviving rapids_ , you must succeed on a success roll using _sailor skill level + dexterity bonus_ as the baseline score. The difficulty is determined by the game master. If you fail, the boat will capsize. 

① Large Ship Steering 

② Seamanship 

- ③ Small Ship Steering 

- ④ Swim 

⑤ Weather Prediction 

- ⑥ Climb 

- ⑦ Ropework 

## **[** ① **Large Ship Steering** 

## **[Intelligence] ]** 

As a major premise, large ships (fishing ships, trading ships, battleships, etc.) cannot be operated by one person. For these ships, at least _half_ of the crew must have the sailor skill. 

## **[** ④ **Swim [Agility] ]** 

## **(Equipment restriction)** 

Sailors have the ability to swim. Follow the rules for _swim_ under _common adventurer abilities_ -- replace _adventurer level_ with _sailor skill level_ --and make a check. 

In order to perform delicate maneuvers such as _surviving a storm_ , _avoiding a reef_ , and _ramming an enemy ship_ , the person at the helm must succeed on a success roll using their _sailor skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. At this time, the captain can also give instructions to the helmsman. In this case, make a success roll using the captain's _sailor skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. Even if a large ship fails, it will not sink immediately, but it will likely suffer some damage. 

## **[** ⑤ **Weather Prediction [Intelligence] ]** 

## **(Not retriable)** 

Sailors are able to sensitively feel and predict changes in the weather while out at sea. Please see the ranger ability of the same name. 

## **[** ⑥ **Climb [Agility] ]** 

## **(Equipment restriction)** 

Sailors have the ability to _climb_ in order to perform actions such as ascending masts or stretched nets. This is handled in the same way as that of the thief skill. 

## **[** ⑦ **Ropework [Dexterity] ]** 

Sailors have the ability to tie ropes at will so that they do not unravel or, conversely, quickly unravel. A sailor can untie a knot by succeeding on a success roll using _sailor skill level + dexterity bonus_ as the baseline score. At this time, the game master should decide the difficulty or target score, taking into consideration the tightness of the knot and the time it'll take. 

A rope that a sailor tied to keep it from coming undone should have a difficulty equal to the sailor's skill level if someone attempts to untie it. 

128