# 8.2 How to Use Experience Points: Increasing Skill Levels

## **8.1** 

## **Experience Points** 

**Experience points** are points given to characters as an indicator of how much experience they have gained as a result of their adventures. **Character growth** is done using these experience points. 

## **8.2** 

## **How to Use Experience Points: Increasing Skill Levels** 

At the end of an adventure, characters gain experience points. By _spending_ these experience points, a character can increase their skill level-you pay experience points to buy skill levels. A character can advance in any number of skills and by any number of levels at once. However, in any case, a character's skill level can only reach 10th level. 

The experience points required to increase each skill are shown on Table 8- 1: Experience Points by Skill. For now, please ignore the rightmost column (reduction for acquiring sorcerer & sage at the same time). 

## **Example:** 

The adventurer Ducard II gains 5000 experience points as a result of his adventure. He would like to increase his fighter skill level, which is currently 2, to 3rd level. At this time, the required experience points are 2000 points. He still has 3000 experience points left. He pursues his abilities as a ranger and raises his ranger skill from 1st level to 3rd level in one go. The experience points required for this are 1000 + 1500 = _2500_ points. There are 500 experience points left. 

Any _remaining_ experience points can be carried over and used in addition to the experience points earned on the next adventure. It may seem strange to carry over _experience_ , but think of it as cutting off the adventurer's growth by the 

amount of experience points carried over for now. 

## **8.2.1 Sorcerer Skill and Sage Skill** 

## **Example:** 

Ducard II will keep 500 experience points for future use. If he gains 5000 experience points again on his next adventure, he can now use his 5500 experience points to advance. 

There is a close connection between the sorcerer skill and the sage skill. The sorcerer skill is the mastery of _ancient_ through study and the improvement of magical ability, while the sage skill is knowledge gained primarily through the study of ancient books. 

Experience points _cannot_ be negative. This is because you can't grow from experiences you haven't had. You also cannot _sell_ your skill levels for experience points. 

These two skills have something in common in that their basics are the study of _ancient_ as well as ancient books. In fact, many sorcerers are excellent sages, and the sorcerers’ guild is also called the _academy of sages_ . 

For this reason, a character can spend _fewer_ experience points _only_ when acquiring both the sorcerer _and_ sage skills. 

**Table 8-1: Experience Points by Skill** 

|Attained Level|<br>Sorcerer|Shaman<br>Dragon Priest|Fighter<br>Tief<br>Priest<br>Dark Priest|Ranger<br>Sage<br>Bard|Reduction for<br>Acquiring<br>Sorcerer &<br>Sage at the<br>Same Time|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|1|2000|1500|1000|500|-500|
|2|3000|2000|1500|1000|-500|
|3|4000|3000|2000|1500|-1000|
|4|5000|4000|3000|2000|-1000|
|5|7000|5000|4000|3000|-1500|
|6|9000|7000|5000|4000|-2000|
|7|12000|9000|7000|5000|-3000|
|8|15000|12000|9000|7000|-4000|
|9|20000|15000|12000|9000|-5000|
|10|25000|20000|15000|12000|-6000|



130