# 8.4 Increasing General Skills

When a character who already has the sorcerer skill acquires the sage skill at the same level or lower, or when a character who already has the sage skill acquires the sorcerer skill at the same level or lower, the amount of experience points spent can be reduced depending on the skill level. 

Please see the rightmost column of Table 8-1: Experience Points by Skill. 

## **Example 1:** 

Suppose a character has a 3rd level sorcerer skill and a 1st level sage skill and increases his sage skill to 2nd level. At this time, the newly acquired _sage skill level 2_ is _lower_ than the already acquired _sorcerer skill level 3_ , so he can acquire it for _fewer_ experience points. The reduction on the _2 levels_ row is _500 points_ , so the experience points spent are _1000_ points (experience points originally 

required for sage skill level 2) - _500_ points (reduction amount) = **500** points. 

This character can also reduce his required experience points when increasing his sage skill to 3rd level. The reduction on the _3 levels_ row is _1000 points_ . Therefore, the experience points required to acquire a 3rd level sage skill are 1500 - _1000_ = **500** points. 

There is no reduction in experience points when increasing the sage skill to 4th level. This is because the sorcerer skill is only 3rd level. 

## **Example 2:** 

Consider a character with a 1st level sorcerer skill and a 3rd level sage skill who wants to advance his sorcerer skill. In this case, as in the example above, when increasing the sorcerer skill to 2nd and 3rd level, there is a reduction in experience points for each, and they can 

be increased with 3000 - _500_ = **2500** and 4000 - _1000_ = **3000** points. However, this perk is not available when increasing the sorcerer skill to 4th level. 

A character with a 3rd level sorcerer skill or a 3rd level sage skill will not receive any experience point reductions regardless of whether they reach 4th level. 

## **Example 3:** 

When a character who does not have either the sorcerer skill or the sage skill newly acquires a 1st level sorcerer skill, they can also acquire a 1st level sage skill at the same time _without_ spending experience points. If you acquire the 1st level sorcerer skill first, the experience points will be reduced when you acquire the 1st level sage skill, and as a result, the required experience points will be 500 - 500 = **0** points. 

## **8.3** 

## **How to Use Experience Points: Increasing Ability Scores** 

Experience points can also be used to increase your character's ability scores. To increase _dexterity_ , _agility_ , _intelligence_ , or _strength_ by 1 point, humans need 3000 experience points and non-human 

adventurers need 5000 experience points. _Life force_ and _mental power_ are half of that (1500 points, 2500 points). There is no maximum. 

## **8.4** 

## **Increasing General Skills** 

General skills are not necessary for adventurer characters. However, providing general skills may lead to individualization of a character and expand the range of _role-playing_ . 

Now let's explain how to increase your general skill levels. Make no mistake, general skills are skills that are not directly related to adventure. Therefore, no matter how much experience you might gain through adventuring, it would be silly for it to result in you being able to grow fine eggplant (increase in farmer skill) or result in you being able to have lots of 

repeat customers (increase in bartender skill). 

Therefore, general skills cannot be _purchased_ with experience points like adventurer skills. 

It's only acceptable to increase the level of a general skill if you've used that specific general skill for a long period of time. All decisions are made by the game master. 

For example, let's say a character is forced to work in a bar for two months as punishment for eating and drinking without paying. He has no choice but to work as a shop clerk. As he works in this way, he will learn things like how to be 

liked by people at a bar, and how to make simple dishes that pair well with drinks. Of course, different people will pick up different jobs at different speeds, but anyone would have gained some experience in that time. So the game master then decides to give the character 2 levels in the bartender skill. 

If a character is suitable for this type of job, you can give them 3 levels, and if a character is unsuitable, you can give them only 1 level. 

5th level signifies being sufficient at a general skill, so consider reaching levels beyond that to take a large amount of effort. Doing something casually in your 

131

free time would probably only let you get to 3rd level. 

Though they may be general skills, you won't find many humans, etc. who reach 10th level. 

**==> picture [596 x 437] intentionally omitted <==**

132