# 9.4 Automatic Success Restrictions

The time when you should _not_ reveal the difficulty is when revealing the difficulty itself would indicate that something is _wrong_ . For example, suppose one mansion has a difficulty 5 trap and a difficulty 6 trap. What if the difficulty of finding traps has been 5 for a long time, but it suddenly increases to 6? 

## **Should the Difficulty Be Clear?** 

During a difficulty check, it is up to the game master to decide whether or not to reveal the difficulty. However, the difficulty _should_ be made as clear as possible. When a player makes a success roll, they use the _baseline score (skill level + ability bonus)_ and the _final score_ attained from the dice roll to infer the success or failure of the action. At this time, if you don't know the difficulty, it’ll be difficult to guess. 

That alone will make players wary. In such cases, it is better to keep the difficulty low. A technique for creating scenarios is to keep the difficulty consistent for success rolls that are likely to be made frequently in one scenario, such as finding traps. 

For example, let's say a character tries to find a trap. In this case, the final score of his success roll is 13. If the difficulty is clear, let's say it's 3, players can infer that they can only fail when the game master rolls an 11 or 12. 

If you really want to include traps with different difficulties, then when the difficulty changes, just nonchalantly say _Okay, make a success roll_ without telling 

However, this is not possible without knowing the difficulty. 

## **General Modifiers** 

## **9.3** 

In this case, instead of the game master looking at the _Determining Target Scores or Difficulties_ table for _each_ , it's easier to deal with it by setting _one_ target score, assuming there is complete light, and applying -4 to the human because they can't see, -2 to the elf (shaman) because they can use infravision, and _no_ modifier to the dwarf because they have full darkvision. Also, since the modifiers are reflected in the final score, the advantage is that you can _also_ see who did the best search. 

Success rolls may have **modifiers** applied to them. For example, trying to find things in situations with little light can be difficult. 

This situation can be reflected in the target score or difficulty, but there is also a way to deal with it by modifying the _final score_ of the success roll. The advantage of dealing with this through modifiers is that it is simpler and easier to maintain fairness. 

For example, let's say you're searching for a document in a room with little light. Suppose there are three people: a human, an elf (shaman), and a dwarf. 

In _Sword World RPG_ , the only guidelines for general success roll modifiers are as follows (Table 9-2: Success Roll Modifiers). 

## **Automatic Success Restrictions** 

## **9.4** 

A success roll of double sixes is defined as an automatic success. No matter how difficult an action is, there is a 1 in 36 chance of success. This is a rule for game-like fun. 

has a 1 in 36 chance of success. For example, is it _really_ possible for a character to jump over a cliff that’s 20 meters wide? 

The world record for the long jump is just under 9 meters. In _Sword World RPG_ , those with a high thief skill can jump 

However, it would be unnatural if even something that seems so impossible 

them the difficulty. Players will probably think it's the same difficulty as before. Then, after it becomes clear that their success roll was a failure, it'll turn out that the difficulty was actually high. 

Wouldn't that be cheating the players? Do you think so? That's exactly right. However, the fact that they purposefully set a different difficulty and prepared a difficult trap means that they _wanted_ you to fall into that trap, right? _Haha._ 

Of course, even if that's the case, stay true to the roll of your dice. In order for the game to proceed smoothly, it is important for the game master to gain the trust of the players. 

Modifiers are applied to the final score of a success roll. Therefore, the greater the negative number, the more difficult it is. 

Of course, game masters may set other modifiers (such as -3) at their discretion. If there are conditions that make the action easier (such as having tools available to assist), you can also give it a positive modifier. 

**Table 9-2: Success Roll Modifiers** 

|Extremely difcult situation|-4|
|---|---|
|Tough but manageable situation|-2|
|Slightly disadvantageous situation|-1|



farther, but 20 meters is still a ridiculous number. Game masters should _not_ allow a success roll itself for such actions. 

Success rolls are _only_ made when there is a chance of success. 

136