# 10.3 Surprise Attacks

## **10.1** 

## **NPC and Monster Action Announcement** 

The game master must manage the actions of NPCs and monsters. In combat, the planned actions of NPCs and monsters must be announced at the beginning of the round. 

At this time, the game master does not need to make a specific announcement. All they have to do is tell you what you can understand from the character's perspective. 

However, that does _not_ mean that you can make loose announcements and change them depending on the situation. 

For example, it’s correct to announce the planned action of a hellhound with the ability to breathe fire by saying, _I'm about to do something with my mouth wide open…_ The characters have no way of knowing if the hellhound is about to bite them or breathe fire. However, the game master should decide in advance which actions they are going to take. 

They must _not_ change things based on the circumstances, such as attacking with fangs if the character used the spell _Counter Magic_ to increase their resistance, or breathing fire if the character used the spell _Quickness_ to raise their agility (evasion speed). This can lead to a loss of game fairness and may also spoil player motivation. 

Strictly plan your actions, and when telling the players, _only_ tell them things that only the _character_ knows. 

## **10.2** 

## **Combat in Special Situations** 

Combat often occurs in unusual locations, such as in the dark, on poor footing, etc. In such cases, a penalty (sometimes a bonus) is given to an adventurer's attack power or evasion speed, depending on the situation. If the same conditions apply to monsters, the same penalty (bonus) will be given to the monster's attack and evasion points. 

This penalty will be considered in accordance with 9.3: General Modifiers (see p. 136). 

**Table 10-1: Attack Power and Evasion Speed Modifiers** 

|**Table 10-1: Attack Power and Evasion Speed Modifers**||
|---|---|
|Full movement (Evasion speed only)|-4|
|Can’t see opponent (in the dark, invisible enemy, etc.)<br> However, if alternative senses (smell, hearing, etc.) are developed to some extent<br> If you don't have to rely on vision|<br>-4<br>-2<br>None|
|When footing is bad<br> (Rocks and debris are everywhere, water is up to your waist, etc.)|-2|
|Fallen<br> (Same as when trying to stand up because you're in an unstable state)|-2|



An example is shown in Table 10-1: Attack Power and Evasion Speed Modifiers. 

## **10.3** 

## **Surprise Attacks** 

When encountering a monster, one of you may notice the other without them noticing you, allowing you to perform a **surprise attack** . This should also be determined by the game master depending on the situation, but we've included Table 10-2: Surprise Attack Check as a reference. The game master must roll 2D and add it to the monster level (the highest one in the case of a group). Next, all adventurers make a success roll using _ranger skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. Subtract the monster's score from the 

highest final score. On the _Surprise Attack Check_ table, if this score is lower than the one in the _monster_ column, the monster has a chance for a surprise 

attack, and if it's greater than the one in the _adventurer_ column, the adventurers have a chance for a surprise attack. However, you should also take into 

**Table 10-2: Surprise Attack Check** 

|**Table 10-2: Surprise Attack Check**|||
|---|---|---|
|Intelligence|Monster|Adventurer|
|None, almost none, obeys commands|-6|+6|
|Animal, low|-5|+7|
|Human|-4|+8|
|High|-3|+9|



138