# 10.5 Attacks Against the Sleeping

one round. The side that was surprised is unable to take any assertive action. It’s still possible to take actions such as trying to avoid enemy attacks or resisting magic cast on you. However, evading an 

consideration conditions such as the surrounding environment and whether the adventurers are proceeding quietly. 

If a surprise attack occurs, the side who surprised the other is free to act for 

## **Water Combat** 

## **10.4** 

Depending on the situation, adventurers may have to fight in water. 

spellsongs will be unusable. However, if you cast the spirit magic _Water Breathing_ beforehand, you can speak normally and cast spells. 

If the water is chest-high, your freedom of movement is restricted and you suffer a -2 penalty on hit and evasion checks. There are no restrictions on the weapons or magic you can use. 

Also, if you cast the spell _Decrease Water Pressure_ , which is also spirit magic, you can fight without suffering any of these penalties. At this time, you can use any weapon except projectiles. However, projectiles _cannot_ be used. 

If you are head-deep in water, you suffer a -4 penalty on hit and evasion checks. Additionally, the only weapons you can use are daggers, short swords, one-handed spears, or something similar. Other weapons and shields _cannot_ be used. Also, since you cannot make sound normally underwater, _all_ spells and 

As explained in the _swim_ section under Common Adventurer Abilities, you can only hold your breath underwater for a number of rounds equal to your life force (points). Unless 

## **Attacks Against the Sleeping** 

## **10.5** 

_Silence_ or _Mute_ magic, there will be no sound, so there is no need for a success roll. 

## **Rules for Sleeping Monsters** 

To get within 5 meters of a sleeping monster, you must successfully perform the thief skill _stealthy step_ . If you succeed on a success roll using _thief skill level + dexterity bonus_ as the baseline score, the monster will not wake up. If you fail, the monster will sense your presence and wake up immediately. 

Attacks against sleeping monsters are _always_ a success unless you roll 2D and get _double ones_ on your hit check (even when attacking a sleeping opponent, double ones is always a failure). Furthermore, when making a damage check, you can reduce the weapon's critical target by -1. If you are attacking with the _thief_ skill, your critical target will be -2. 

The game master must set the monster's monster level as the difficulty and add a 2D roll to it to determine the target score. Depending on the situation (for example, there are pebbles on the floor and they make a lot of noise, or the monster happens to be wearing earplugs), you can apply positive or negative modifiers to the final score (at this time, the reason you must use a difficulty instead of a target score is because there is a possibility that the monster will continue to pretend to be asleep even though it's aware). If you use 

If you attack a sleeping monster but do not deal any damage, or if you deal damage but are unable to reduce its life points to 0, the monster will wake up immediately. It will probably become angry and counterattack the adventurer starting on the next round. 

If there is combat, etc. going on in the surrounding area or a loud noise is made, the monster will wake up immediately. 

attack will incur a -4 penalty to evasion speed (points). 

you cast _Water Breathing_ , you will drown if you do not reach the surface within this number of rounds. 

If the opponent you're fighting is a creature that lives on land, such as a human, they will suffer the same penalty. However, creatures that live underwater, such as mermen, do not suffer any penalties other than weapon restrictions. Conversely, these creatures become slower on land and typically suffer a -4 penalty to hit and evasion. Some creatures, such as hydra and scylla, can act both in water and on land without penalty. 

In the case of something sleeping due to the ancient magic _Sleep Cloud_ or the spellsong _Lullaby_ , a resistance check must be made every round to judge. If it's natural sleep, there is no need to roll and it'll always wake up. 

However, the spirit magic _Sleep_ is an exception. Unless the magic itself is broken by _Dispel Magic_ or other magic belonging to _mind_ , it will never wake up. 

## **Rules for Sleeping Adventurers** 

If a sleeping adventurer is approached by a monster, the baseline score is _adventurer level + intelligence bonus_ , and if you succeed on a resistance roll against target score 9, you can wake up before being attacked. If the monster has the ability to sneak up on you, the target score will be even higher. If they approach using _stealthy step_ , etc. their final score will become the target score. 

139