# 11.2 Dark Magic

## **Rune Masters’ Status** 

## **11.1** 

In Alecrast, there aren't that many beings called rune masters. Rune masters are respected in a sense by the general public because they have special powers called magic. However, public sentiment towards magic is far from good. This is because, in the days of the ancient kingdom, citizenship was not recognized for anyone _except_ rune 

masters, and all other people were used as slaves. Therefore, there is a great sense of crisis regarding the power of rune masters (especially sorcerers). Some believe that once their numbers become sufficient and they regain the power they had during the ancient kingdom, the age of darkness may come again. 

Although rune masters are not openly persecuted due to the necessity of 

## **Dark Magic** 

## **11.2** 

As mentioned earlier, these runes, like holy magic, use the gods as its source of power. However, it is derived from the power of the gods of evil (wicked gods) such as Phalaris, who are believed to cause harm to us humans. For this reason, the rune masters of these runes are both hated and feared by the general public. A rune master who uses **dark magic** is called a **dark priest** . In a narrow sense, only the priests of Phalaris are sometimes called dark priests. This is because believers in wicked gods other than Phalaris are rarely seen. 

## 《 **Divination** 》 

Like the priest skill, this is the ability to pray and communicate with a god. 

## 《 **Vow** 》 

Similar to the priest skill, this is the ability to make a voluntary vow and have a god protect you. Wicked gods often impose harsh punishments on actions that violate their vows. 

## **11.2.2** 

Dark magic basically has the same origin as holy magic, and dark priests can use most of the basic holy magic. In addition, dark priests can use wicked magic that the gods of light do not allow (do not give power to). Furthermore, just as there is special holy magic that is unique to each god among holy magic, there is also special dark magic. 

## **Basic Dark Magic List** 

Here is a list of common dark magic that any priest of the wicked gods can use. In addition to these, priests of the wicked gods can _also_ use most of the basic holy magic. However, if an identical _type_ of spell or a spell with an identical _name_ is listed under dark magic, they can only use _that_ version of it. 

## **11.2.1** 

## **1st Level Basic Dark** 

## **Basic Abilities of the Dark Priest Skill** 

## **Magic List** 

## **[ Wounds ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=5 

Dark priests can use the following abilities: 

Distance=10 meters Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Cut up the opponent's body, dealing strike power 10 damage Type=Damage (Special) 

their presence, they are also viewed with fear and disgust by the general public. Countries that are negative towards magic sometimes have policies that exile rune masters from the country. 

Of course, these people also rely on magical power when they themselves need it. 

## Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the opposite effect of _Cure Wounds_ , cutting into the target's body and causing wounds. This damage check is made with strike power 10 (criticals can also occur). No damage is dealt to a target that attempts and successfully resists. 

This spell also has no effect on anything that does not have normal life, such as undead or magical creatures. 

## **[ Mental Attack ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=1~ 

Distance=Touch Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Reduces the target's mental power (points) by double the mental power consumed by the caster. 

Type=- 

Expansion=Final score, effect (see description) Resist=Negated effect 

This is a very special spell. Before using this spell, you must declare in advance how many points of mental power (points) you will use. You can reduce the target's mental power (points) by _twice_ the mental power (points) consumed. The caster can use any number of points up to the amount of mental power they have. As a result, if the target's mental power (points) 

142

reaches 0, the opponent will lose consciousness. However, mental power (points) will _not_ fall below 0. 

Note that this spell does _not_ allow the target to reduce damage using adventurer level. Also, the caster _cannot_ add their magic power to the damage dealt, and _cannot_ divide the mental power consumed by the spell by their level (for both a caster with a 1st level dark priest skill and a caster with a 3rd level dark priest skill, the mental power consumed is the same). 

## **2nd Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Deafness ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=8 Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Take away the target's hearing Type=Countered (Negated) By: _Cure Deafness_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of taking away the target's hearing. The target can attempt to resist, but a target who fails will no longer be able to hear any sounds. If they're successful, they won't be affected at all. The penalty that’ll be imposed depends on the situation, so the game master should act on the assumption that the target cannot hear. 

## **[ Blindness ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=8 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=18 Rounds Effect=Take away the target's vision Type=Countered (Negated) By: _Cure Blindness_ 

Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of taking away the target's vision. If the target successfully resists, it’ll have no effect. If a human or monster in this state (only those that rely on vision) attempts to attack, they suffer a -4 modifier to attack and evasion. 

## **3rd Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Poison ]** 

This is a spell that creates a poison within the target's body, and its effect depends on the type of poison produced. There are two types of poison that can be created by this spell. The target can also attempt a resistance roll, and targets that succeed will not suffer any effect. 

Although it is a poison, the resistance roll is made as a _mental power_ resistance roll, _not_ life force. Please be careful. 

## **Paralysis Poison** 

Base Mental Power Cost=15 Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=12 hours 

Effect=Creates a paralyzing poison in the target's body Type=Target score Countered (Negated) By: _Cure Poison_ Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

A poison carried by ghouls that has the effect of paralyzing the opponent's nerves. At the end of the next round after this spell is cast on you, you will be paralyzed and unable to move. 

## **Damage Poison** 

Base Mental Power Cost=15 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One 

Duration=Special Effect=Creates a damage poison in the target's body Type=Target score, damage (Poison-type) Countered (Negated) By: _Cure Poison_ Expansion=Final score, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

Deals damage to the opponent's life force (points). First, make a strike roll with a strike power of 20. Magic power should be added to damage as usual. Also, your opponent _cannot_ reduce this damage using adventurer level. This poison's damage is not applied immediately, but in the form of 1 point at the end of each round, starting on the round in which the spell is used. The poison then lasts until the final determined damage is dealt. In this case, 

if the poison is removed by a spell such as _Cure Poison_ , etc. midway, the damage will stop accumulating at that point. However, the damage suffered up to that point will _not_ be recovered. 

## **4th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Control Imp ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 

Distance=1 kilometer 

Area=One imp Duration=Permanent 

Effect=You can make an imp into your familiar 

Type=Non-removable Expansion=Resist=None 

This spell is very similar to the ancient magic _Familiar_ . The difference, however, is that the thing you can summon to become your familiar is an imp, not a small animal. One caster _cannot_ summon a second one. See p. 178 for information on imp abilities. 

An imp that’s become a familiar can be controlled freely from a distance, and the caster can see and hear through the imp's eyes and ears. When casting magic, you can also borrow the imp's mental points to cast spells. 

If the imp loses life points or mental points due to an attack from another, the caster will also suffer the same pain as the imp, and will lose the same amount in life force or mental power. 

## **[ Steal Life ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=30 meters Area=One 

Duration=Instant 

Effect=Take strike power 10 life force (points) from the target and give it to the caster. Type=Damage (Special, see explanation) Expansion=Final score, distance, targets, damage certainty Resist=Negated effect 

This spell combines the effects of both _Wounds_ and _Cure Wounds_ , allowing the caster to absorb life force (points) from the target to recover when the caster is wounded. First, make a strike power 10 check for damage dealt 

143

to the target, and the caster's life force (points) will be restored by the same number of points. If you expand the effect and steal life force (points) from multiple people, you can recover the total amount of life force (points) you stole. However, you _cannot_ increase your life (points) higher than your original score. Also, like _Wounds_ , it has no effect at all if the opponent successfully resists, and it has no effect on opponents that don't have normal life, such as undead, skeleton warriors, etc. This spell also cannot be used if the dark priest him or herself is undead. 

impose. However, the higher the caster's level, or if some kind of price is paid at the same time as the spell, the more terrifying the effect will be. For example, if the caster sacrifices their own life, it is acceptable to apply a fairly powerful curse. An example of a curse is making a beautiful face ugly or changing the color of one's skin. Game masters should limit the effects of curses so that they do not immediately kill the individual. Curses can be removed by _Remove Curse_ or _Perfect Cancellation_ , but there are also always items or actions that are the key to lifting the curse. The curse will be lifted when you obtain the item or complete the action. This key is usually unknown to the target of the curse. 

## **5th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Curse ]** 

## **[ Create Zombie ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 Distance=10 meters Area=One corpse Duration=Permanent Effect=Resurrect the deceased as a zombie Type=Non-removable, ritual Expansion=Distance, targets, target volume Resist=None 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=Permanent Effect=Put a curse on the target Type=Curse, target score Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell is used on an individual to impose penalties that are not directly life-threatening. It’s up to the game master to decide what kind of penalty to 

To cast this spell, you need a corpse that is within a few days of death. The corpse can be resurrected as a zombie and used as a slave. Zombies move 

_The man's eyes were sunken in, his skin dry and flaky. His lips were so chapped they looked as if they were about to bleed._ 

## **Curse** 

_The man who sat down at the table bluntly ordered dried meat and hard bread from the waiter. The waiter placed the order on the plate, though with some hesitation. “We have fresh meat in the kitchen, so why wouldn't he order freshlycooked meat instead?”_ 

_“Thunk.”_ 

_A cup was placed in front of the man. Water poured in._ 

_"It's on the house, don't worry about paying" The waiter told the man. "Are you ill?"_ 

_“Why didn't he ask for soft white bread to go with it?”_ 

_The waiter looked into the man's face as he asked. He was shook by the intensity in his eyes._ 

_The man brought the dried meat to his mouth and began to chew it very slowly. He chewed countless times, until finally he swallowed. Then, he moved on to the hard bread. This too, he chewed for so long that it was vexing to watch, and then, with much effort, sent it down his throat and into his stomach._ 

_The man was staring intently into the glass of water. Hostility? Hatred? The man glared at the cup, with his eyes arched wide._ 

_“If I were betrayed by a woman I'd always loved, then ran into her, that’s the look I might give her.” That thought came to the waiter's mind._ 

according to the caster's commands, but due to their low intellect, they can only understand simple commands such as _kill anyone who enters this room_ or _dig a hole_ . See p. 215 for zombie details. 

If you wish, you can turn non-human animals, fae, youma, titans, mythical beasts, magical beasts, etc. into zombies, but if you want to cast it on something larger than human size, you will need to consume extra mental power (points) to expand the effect. The required mental power (points) increases in proportion to the volume of the target. On the other hand, if you turn a small animal into a zombie, it does _not_ mean that you’ll need to consume _less_ mental power. 

Each game master is responsible for determining the details for non-human zombies. 

_Eventually a shaky hand rose up and grabbed the cup. The cup was slowly raised in front of the waiter. The man brought it to his mouth, and he took a sip._ 

_"Blaaagh"_ 

_The man violently spat the mouthful out onto the table._ 

_"Sir!"_ 

_The waiter instinctively exclaimed. As he was about to put his hand on his shoulder, the waiter noticed a strong, suffocating smell of alcohol._ 

_The waiter looked around. He wondered if perhaps someone tipped over their drink, but there didn't seem to be any sign of that anywhere._ 

_He lifted the cup he brought and held it up to his lips. Sure enough, it was just water, but......._ 

144

**==> picture [318 x 347] intentionally omitted <==**

_As he wiped up the mess the man had made, the waiter noticed that it was giving off a strong odor of alcohol._ 

_"Please take it away"_ 

_With a trembling finger, the man pointed to the glass of water. The waiter nodded and carried it away._ 

_"Dammit"_ 

_The man held his head in his hands. It was that man in the black robe. While he was drunk and acting rowdy, he swung his arm around and hit him in the head._ 

_"If you like alcohol this much......"_ 

_The man in the black robe looked back with a cold smile and a dark gaze._ 

_"I'll turn every mouthful of water you drink into alcohol"_ 

_Since then, all the water he's drank has turned into alcohol. But it’s not just any alcohol. It's the strong kind that violently burns one's throat as soon as they take a sip. It's even stronger than the hard liquor that the dwarves are said to treasure._ 

_It isn't just water. The juices that drip from cooked meat and fresh juice from fruit were all turned into alcohol._ 

_He tried to dilute liquor with water, but the result was the same. As soon as it entered his mouth, the supposedly diluted liquor burned his throat._ 

_“I want...... water.”_ 

_As the man cleared his throat, he was annoyed by the noise around him._ 

_“Why me…?”_ 

_Full of resentment and hatred, the man looked around the bar._ 

_His eyes stopped. On one man. A man with a black hood completely covering his face._ 

_"You want to do this?"_ 

_With a wry smile on his face, the man in the black robe placed a bottle of liquor on the table with a thud. One of the finest in the bar._ 

_“Crash!”_ 

_The bottle that had been knocked aside fell off_ 

_the table and shattered with a loud crash._ 

_"Piss off."_ 

_The man suffering from the curse replied, in a hoarse voice._ 

_"Well, this is most unfortunate"_ 

_The man in the black robe turned and walked away, with a cold, triumphant smile hidden beneath his hood._ 

_Only the man in the black robe knew. The key to breaking the curse was to "drink from a bottle of alcohol served by another"... ...but the man tormented by the curse of alcohol would never find out._ 

_The man in the black robe slowly stood up. He then walked up to the black table._ 

145

## **6th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Mesmerize ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=30 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Hypnotize the target and make them move at will 

Type=Mind 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=Negated effect 

This spell hypnotizes the opponent, rendering them unable to actively think. The caster can control the hypnotized subject at will. However, this _cannot_ be used to make them do intense movements such as combat, or casting magic. It can only be as much as making them walk slowly in the direction you want or bring you something in their hands. You also cannot give complex commands that require the person to judge the situation and have them carry them out. For example, if you were to command someone to _go to a certain house and steal some jewels_ , it wouldn’t be possible because those under the spell's influence wouldn't be able to think of a way to break into that house. Furthermore, you cannot command actions that directly encourage suicide. However, it _is_ possible to make someone walk off a cliff and fall to their death. 

If you expand the effect and apply it to multiple targets at once, you can only give the _same_ command to _all_ targets. 

## **[ Rot ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=24 Distance=Touch 

Area=One object Duration=30 minutes 

Effect=Decays the target Type=Target score, Non-removable Counters (Overpowers): _Preservation_ Countered (Overpowered) By: _Preservation_ Expansion=Final score, time reduction (see description) 

Resist=None 

This spell has the effect of accelerating the rate of decay and causing the target to rot faster. Objects 

that had this spell cast on them will decay very quickly. Decay, which normally takes two to three days, will be reduced to half an hour. As long as an object is perishable, it _will_ decay, even if under conditions where decay would normally not progress, such as the environment being below freezing, or being soaked in a saturated brine. However, this has no effect on metals or rocks, and it has no effect on living creatures at all. Targets are limited to non-living meat, plants, fibers, etc. 

This spell can reduce the time it takes for decay to complete by consuming extra mental power. If _double_ the normal amount of mental power is consumed, the target will decay in _15_ minutes, and if _triple_ , the target will decay in _10_ minutes. 

Even if the spell is removed with _Perfect Cancellation_ , etc. the target will not return to the state it was in before it decayed (it _will_ return with the _counter_ magic _Preservation_ . See p. 102). 

## **7th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

There is no 7th level basic dark magic. 

## **8th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Cripple ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=40 

Distance=30 meters 

Area=One body part Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Take away an opponent's bodily freedom 

Type=Curse, target score 

Expansion=Final score, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of taking away freedom of a part of the target's body, such as a limb, etc. Those who’ve had this spell cast on them will suffer various penalties depending on the body part. If you lose freedom of your arms, you won't be able to hold anything in those arms, and if you lose freedom of your legs, you will have difficulty moving, so you will suffer a -2 penalty on attack and evasion in combat, respectively. If freedom of your head is taken away, you 

will be unable to see, hear, speak, or smell. As a result, it’ll be difficult to willingly take action. 

**[ Summon Servant ]** Base Mental Power Cost=32 

Distance=Caster 

Area=An area within a 1 kilometer radius from the caster 

Duration=1 hour 

Effect=Summon animals that represent a god Type=Target score Expansion=Final score, duration, area Resist=None 

This spell is the same as the holy magic of the same name. Please refer to p. 103. The creatures summoned vary depending on the wicked god. Please refer to the following list. 

Phalaris: Crow, rat, wolf, bat Kardis: Crow, vulture 

The Nameless God of Madness: Lemming 

Mirleaf: Octopus, squid (only in the sea) 

## **9th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Plague ]** 

Basic Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch Area=One Duration=Instant 

Effect=Infect your opponent with a highly contagious plague 

Type=- 

Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that inflicts a plague on the target. There are various types of this plague. Each game master should specify the symptoms. 

Regardless of the symptoms specified by the game master, the plague's _rarity_ is 16. Also, the _progression speed/progression Intensity/ Healing score_ is 3 days/8/11 (22). It has a _lethal depth_ of 3 and is _very highly_ contagious. Note that the caster of the spell _also_ becomes a target of the contagion immediately after the target contracts the illness. Also, if the target successfully resists the spell, they’ll suffer no effect. 

146