## 11.2 Dark Magic

For detailed rules regarding illnesses, please refer to 12.2.2: Illnesses (see p. 164). 

## **[ Recall Spirit ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Touch Area=One sacrifice Duration=Instant 

Effect=Give a sacrificial body to a soul of the dead 

Type=Ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell is almost the same as the divine magic of the same name, except that it uses the body of a sacrifice instead of the caster to bring the dead back to life. Only those that the caster knows well (or at least is acquainted with) can be resurrected. Also, those who have lost their souls and are destroyed, or those who have become undead, cannot be resurrected. The person who was sacrificed loses their soul container and cannot be resurrected. 

This spell requires a final score of 20 or greater while also defeating the sacrifice's resist for it to be fully effective. Even if you defeat the sacrifice's resist, if you do not attain a final score of 20 or greater, the dead who was resurrected will lose their memories. 

## **10th Level Basic Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Call God ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=50 

Distance=Touch Area=One sacrifice Duration=Permanent Effect=Summon a dark god Type=Target score, ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This spell is almost the same as the holy magic of the same name, except for its duration and the fact that it summons a god (wicked god) into the body of a sacrifice rather than the caster. Even wicked gods who have lost contact with the material world will be able to use their full power if summoned with this 

spell. However, humans' frail bodies and minds cannot withstand the great power of a god, so the sacrifice to the spell is destroyed, and you will not be able to bring them back to life again. 

This spell requires a final score of 30 or greater while also defeating the sacrifice's resist for it to be fully effective. Even if you defeat the sacrifice's resist, if you do not attain a final score of 30 or greater, the dark god's summoning will only last for 1 minute. 

This spell has a bonus added to the final score depending on the person being sacrificed. If the person being sacrificed is close to a god (regardless of whether it's a god of light or a god of darkness), you can add +1 to +6 to the final score. Their priest skill level is a reference for how close the sacrifice is to a god, but there are some humans who are close to a god regardless of their skill level. For example, it is for this reason that innocent girls are preferred as sacrifices. Each game master is responsible for determining the suitability of sacrifices, etc. 

## **11.2.3** 

## **Special Dark Magic List** 

Here is a list of special dark magic that can be used uniquely by each wicked god. Priests of wicked gods can use basic holy magic, basic dark magic, _and_ special dark magic created by their god. 

## **Phalaris Special Dark Magic List** 

**[ Evil Impulse ] (Spell Level=4)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=30 meters 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Cause the target to impulsively commit evil acts 

Type=Mind Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of amplifying the evil spirit that lies dormant in a person's heart. Targets that fail to resist will impulsively act in evil ways. What the target does depends on the situation at the moment and their desires. For example, if you think deep down _I want money_ , you’ll be tempted to steal it immediately. 

This spell has no effect on beings without intelligence or beasts who always act on impulse. 

## **The Nameless God of Madness Special Dark Magic List** 

**[ Insanity ] (Spell Level=1)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=3 

Distance=10 meters 

Area=One 

Duration=18 rounds 

Effect=Take away the target's sanity 

Type=Mind 

Expansion=Final score, duration, distance, targets 

Resist=Negated effect 

This spell has the effect of giving a strong shock to the opponent's mind, with the power to ruin their peace of mind and cause them to lose their sanity. Targets who lose their sanity due to this spell go into bizarre states such as staring vacantly in bewilderment, yelling nonsense, or curling up and sobbing, and become completely unable to take logical actions. 

Most of the time, they will only be rendered useless, but only when they roll 2D again and the result is double ones, they will go berserk with madness and engage in destructive acts. In this case, they will be in the same state as when _Berserk_ is cast, described below. Please refer to _Berserk_ for handling. 

**[ Berserk ] (Spell Level=3)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=15 

Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=18 rounds Effect=Make the target go berserk Type=Mind 

147

Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=Negated effect 

Those who have this spell cast on them and fail to resist will go berserk and feel an urge to destroy everything nearby. Even the caster is not safe from the target. As a result, they will destroy property within sight and blindly attack creatures, regardless of friend or foe. At this time, their attack power and bonus damage will be +2, and their evasion speed will be -4. They also become indifferent to wounds and pain and ignore the risks of injury or life. Also, if no one is around, they will wound themselves. 

While under the influence of this spell, you will not fall unconscious even if your life force (points) drops to 0 or less. However, a death check must be made. The first time it becomes 0 or less, and each time you receive a new wound, you must make a death check, and if you fail, you will die. 

## **[ Lunatic Seed ] (Spell Level=4)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=20 Distance=Touch 

Area=One Duration=Permanent 

Effect=Plant the seeds of madness in the opponent's mind Type=Mind, curse Expansion=Final score Resist=Negated effect 

This is a spell that plants the seeds of madness deep within the target's mind. Those who've had this spell cast on them will be unable to disobey the caster's commands. However, the caster's commands must be something _erratic_ , so to speak. Rational commands will be ignored. They have to be irrational, based on insanity. Those under the spell's influence will be unable to act intelligently, even without the caster's commands. This spell's effect lasts until it is negated (as it is a curse, it cannot be removed by other magic belonging to _mind_ ) or until the caster renounces it. 

## **[ Lunatic Dance ] (Spell Level=5)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=25 

## Distance=Caster 

Area=Anyone within the caster's view Duration=12 hours + until focus and dancing ends 

Effect=Causes 12 hours of madness to anyone who watches the dance 

Type=Focus, mind Expansion=Final score, effect time (see description) Resist=Negated effect 

This magic does not require the spell to be chanted. Instead, you must dance with complex gestures. 

Those who see this dance and fail a resistance roll will go insane and begin dancing in response to the caster's dance. Even if you go insane, you won't go berserk, but you will no longer be able to act rationally. This madness lasts for an additional 12 hours even if the caster stops dancing. 

This magic can extend the amount of time the target remains insane after the dance ends, if the caster consumes extra mental power to expand the effect. 

**Kardis Special Dark Magic List [ Death ] (Spell Level=9)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 Distance=10 meters Area=One Duration=Instant Effect=Instantly kill the target Type=Expansion=Final score, targets Resist=Negated effect 

A terrifying death spell created by the power of the goddess of death, Kardis. A target who has this spell cast on them and fails a resistance roll will die instantly. It has no effect on things that do not have normal life, such as undead, magical creatures etc. 

## **Mirleaf Special Dark Magic List** 

## **[ Create Ghost Ship ] (Spell Level=6)** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 Distance=Touch 

Area=One ship Duration=Permanent Effect=Makes a ship into a ghost ship Type=Non-removable Counters (Overpowers): _Sink_ Expansion=Resist=None 

When this spell is cast on a ship, it will never sink, no matter how much it rots, as long as it only carries as much weight as the original ship could support. However, this does _not_ stop the ship itself from decaying, so over many years it will rot to pieces. This spell is effective even on ships that have already sunk or are shipwrecked and partially destroyed. 

The priests of Mirleaf often load zombie and skeleton sailors onto the ships they create, and use them as ghost ships to wreak havoc on the seas. 

148