# 11.4 Acquiring Rune Master Skills and Increasing Levels

## **9th Level Dragon Roar Magic List** 

## **[ Summon Lesser Dragon ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=45 

Distance=Infinite Area=One lesser dragon Duration=18 rounds Effect=Summon one lesser dragon Type=Summon, ritual, non-removable Expansion=Final score, duration Resist=None 

Summon and control a lesser dragon. Although greater than a wyvern, a lesser dragon's intellect is also not very high, so it can only be used to fight enemies or to carry you on its back. Up to _two_ adult humans can ride on the back of a lesser dragon. Lesser dragons have super strength, so this restriction is not a matter of weight, but of space for riding 

(they can carry many more people if you use a basket, etc.). 

## **10th Level Dragon Roar Magic List** 

## **[ Reborn Dragon ]** 

Base Mental Power Cost=30 Distance=Caster Area=Caster Duration=Instant Effect=Be reborn as a dragon Type=Non-removable, ritual Expansion=Final score Resist=None 

The ultimate dragon roar magic spell. It is no exaggeration to say that dragon priests undergo rigorous training for this spell. Upon using this spell, death will come to the dragon priest. At this time, the caster must make a success roll to determine a final score. If this final score 

does _not_ reach 20, the caster will _die_ as they are. They _cannot_ be revived by any means. 

If a final score of 20 or greater _is_ attained, then after the caster's death, their corpse will be wrapped in a dragon egg, and a few years later, will be reborn as a lesser dragon. The egg _cannot_ be destroyed by any means. Even _Perfect Cancellation_ is ineffective. 

When you’re reborn, your memories of your previous life will be lost, but your potential as a dragon is high, and after several decades you will shed your skin and transform into an elder dragon. At this time, along with the memories from when you became a dragon, the memories and skills you had during your lifetime will be resurrected. 

## **11.4** 

## **Acquiring Rune Master Skills and Increasing Levels** 

Here is a summary of how to acquire and increase the level of each rune master skill. 

## 《 **Sorcerer Skill** 》 

There are two ways to acquire the sorcerer skill. One is to join the sorcerers' guild. The other is to become an apprentice to a sorcerer with a sorcerer skill of 6th level or greater. 

Then, you'll be given basic knowledge as a sorcerer, such as speaking and reading in high and low ancient, thus a sorcerer who can use 1st level spells is born. In this case, the rules require 2000 experience points (1500 points if you've acquired the sage skill). Also, although there are no specific restrictions in the rules, a training period of about 3 to 5 years is required. The sorcerer skill is increased by spending experience points. As your sorcerer skill increases, your magic power increases and at the same time you also immediately gain access to higher level spells. Please interpret this as because the 

sorcerer's spellbook has spells that they cannot handle written down in advance. 

## 《 **Shaman Skill** 》 

To acquire the shaman skill, you must be taught how to communicate with spirits by a shaman with a shaman skill of 1st level or higher. The art of communicating with spirits is not based on theory, but must be learned through experience, by watching and imitating other shamans. Although there are no specific restrictions in the rules, training for one year or more is usually required. 

The shaman skill is increased by spending experience points. As your shaman skill increases, your magic power increases and at the same time you also immediately gain access to higher level spells. This is because your relationship with the spirits becomes stronger. 

## 《 **Priest Skill** 》 

To acquire the priest skill, it is necessary to _awaken to faith_ . When you 

awaken to faith and recognize the existence of the gods, you can acquire the 1st level priest skill. Therefore, there may be no particular need for a master, teacher, or period of training. It is possible to suddenly feel Myrii's power while fighting and become a priest, or to feel heartbroken by the chaotic mayhem and, worried about what to do, become an apostle of Pharis. 

However, the surest way to awaken to faith is to work in a temple, constantly see other priests, and receive their teachings. This is because it is the best way to experience the nature of faith firsthand. 

The priest skill is increased by spending experience points. As your priest skill increases, your magic power increases and at the same time you also immediately gain access to higher level spells. This is because your relationship with your god becomes stronger. 

In rare cases, if a character who had the priest skill believes that their previous teachings are wrong and awakens to the teachings of another god, they may lose any previous priest skill 

153