# 11.5 Asking NPCs to Use Magic

levels they had and acquire 1st level in a new god's priest skill level instead. From there, you will have to increase your priest skill again. If the game master wishes, on the basis that you rebelled greatly against your old faith, they may require only half the normal experience points to increase your level until you reach your previous priest skill level. 

## 《 **Dark Priest Skill** 》 

The method of acquiring and increasing the dark priest skill is almost the same as the priest skill. However, many of the dark gods that dark priests 

believe in have no temples, and most dark priests will be those who have _awakened to faith_ by some occurrence. Many such awakenings could be things like a longtime believer of a god of light being betrayed by their god. There are also cases such as a friend who was a priest of Faris who, in order to maintain order, turned in his own brother, who was plotting a rebellion, and after grief about his actions, awoke to the teachings of _The Nameless God of Madness_ (though usually you'd just say _they went mad_ about things like this...) 

## 《 **Dragon Priest Skill** 》 

Dragon priests are based on a unique belief in dragons. This is only possible if you're part of a group of people who believe in dragons (mostly considered savages). 

The dragon priest skill is increased by spending experience points. By increasing their level, they can have deeper connections to dragons, and they can gain access to new powers (spells) immediately. 

## **11.5** 

## **Asking NPCs to Use Magic** 

In some cases, adventurers may need to rely on NPCs to save them from situations that are beyond their control. You may want to have a _Remove Curse_ cast on you when you're cursed, a _Resurrection_ cast when someone dies, or have a magical item appraised using _Analyze Enchantment_ . 

Of course, these services are not always available, and when they are, they are not free. 

First, the game master must decide whether there are enough rune masters to do this. High ranking (high level) rune masters are not easy to come by. Even in a large country, there may or may not be at least one rune master who has reached 10th level. 

As a rough standard, here we've listed Table 11-2: NPC Presence by Level. 

Once you have found such a rune master, you must next determine whether or not your request will be granted. The higher-ranking rune masters are, the busier they are. They surely won't hear your requests too easily, and it's questionable whether they'd even allow you to meet them in the first place. 

Basically, you can expect to meet any rune master up to 2 levels higher than the adventurers' adventurer level. If you want to meet someone at a higher level, you'll need some connections on the side. 

**Table 11-2: NPC Presence by Level** 

|10th level|Royal capital level of a large country|
|---|---|
|7th level|Large city in a large country, royal capital level of a small country|
|5th level|Moderate city|
|3rd level|Town of around 1000 people|
|1st level|All but the most remote village|



Priests are relatively easy to meet, but shamans and sorcerers are by no means easy to meet. All such decisions are made by the game master. Of course, it would be difficult to ask a single rune master to do all sorts of things again and again, and if the adventurers conclusively incur an NPC's displeasure, no amount of money will make them say yes. 

magic use _fails_ , you do _not_ have to pay the remainder. 

## **Example:** 

Think about when you use _Resurrection_ to bring back a friend who lost their life on an adventure. Let's say you have a corpse that's been dead for 5 days, but has been preserved via _Preservation_ . At this time, the final score required for resurrection is 19. 

And of course, a certain price is required in order to have the magic cast. The market price is _NPC's rune master skill level x base mental power cost for magic x 20_ . If you have the magic expanded, the price will increase by double, triple...... etc. depending on the expansion rate. The same goes for having a ritual performed. If you want to increase the final score by +1, +2...... etc. through a ritual, you have to double, triple...... etc. the price you pay. 

You successfully find a 10th level priest and the negotiations are settled. If you want to cast _Resurrection_ normally, the required money is 10 (priest's level) x 45 (base mental power cost for _Resurrection_ ) x 20 = **9000** (gamels). However, assuming the priest's intelligence bonus is +2 , a 2D roll of 7 or greater is required for a successful resurrection. 

For such requests, you usually give 10% to 30% as advance payment. If the 

Thinking that this is not enough, the adventurers ask the priest if they can expand the magic and increase the final 

154

score. The priest's mental power is 14, so it can be expanded by _double_ (final score +1). The money required at this time is _18,000_ gamels. If you roll 6 or greater on a success roll, it'll be a success. 

To be even more certain, the adventurers request an additional +3 to their final score via ritual. If you do this, 

the resurrection will be successful unless you roll double ones. However, in order to do so, you must donate 9000 x 5 (because the eventual final score is +4) = **45,000** gamels to the priest (temple). In this case, the average advance payment is between 4,500 and 13,500 Gamels. 

These are the going rates when an _adventurer_ makes a request to an _NPC_ . Adventurers _themselves_ cannot go around charging these same rates. If you don't have clients, you won't get paid. Trying to force people to pay is, of course, a criminal act. 

**==> picture [596 x 453] intentionally omitted <==**

155