# 12.1 Rules Regarding Language

## **Rules Regarding Language** 

## **12.1** 

The characters and intelligent monsters of Forcelia each have a means of communicating, that is, a language. In Forcelia (as in our world), there are multiple language systems. They vary depending on region and on race. Language includes spoken words and written words. In Alecrast, there are not many written languages, and there are quite a few languages that only have spoken words. There are not many races other than humans that have the habit of writing and reading. If you have a written language, you can not only have conversations with it, but also read it, but with a language that _only_ has spoken words, you _cannot_ read it, and can _only_ have conversations with it. 

Silent spirit is an exception among runes and _can_ be used for communication. 

## **12.1.2** 

## **Normal Languages of Forcelia** 

Forcelia currently has the following known normal languages. 

## 《 **Common** 》 

**Common** is the language most widely used in the world of _Sword World_ . This language was first used during the early new kingdom period, replacing low ancient which had been the normal language of the ancient kingdom. Common was frequently used as a normal language in the great empire that was formed in the early new kingdom period. However, as the great empire fell and many small kingdoms were born in various regions, each region began to develop its own language, and its role as a normal language was lost. However, from that time on, there had been no small number of people who moved back and forth across the kingdom. Language was a major barrier for peddlers without borders, traveling bards, mercenaries and adventurers. Therefore, these people and those who often had contact with them (merchants, innkeepers, kings, nobles, etc.) began to use common as a means of communicating with each other. This custom has continued to this day. Common is the language used by the most people in the world of Forcelia. 

## **12.1.1** 

## **Normal Languages and Runes** 

Language can be broadly divided into two types: **normal language** and **runes** . 

## 《 **Normal Languages** 》 

Normal languages are words used for communication, such as conversation and writing. You usually can't cast any magic with these words. Normal language has common runes, but this is because they indirectly use the power of high ancient, and the words themselves have no magical power at all. 

## 《 **Runes** 》 

Runes have magical power, and by chanting them, a rune master can use various types of magic. High ancient, silent spirit, holy prayers, daemon scream, dragon roar, etc. fall under runes. The languages called runes are all quite excellent, but they lack practical application because they have too many rules and restrictions. Therefore, it is almost impossible to communicate with each other using these languages. 

## 《 **Regional** 》 

Alecrast is divided into several regions. For example, there is the northeast region, where three kingdoms are at war, and the central plains, which is crowded with major powers such as Orphan and Ramliearth. Each region, or even smaller kingdom, has its own 

language. These are **regional** . These languages are widespread not only among humans, but also among demihumans and intelligent monsters living in the regions. Strictly speaking, each kingdom should have its own regional language, but we don't want to place too many restrictions on language, so the rules only allow for two broad categories: **mārdan** and **gundar** . If the game master desires, more regional languages may be created. 

## **[ Mārdan ]** 

Mārdan (eastern) is mainly used by the people of Oran, the _kingdom of sages and adventurers_ in the east, and its surrounding kingdoms. Its western border is the kingdom of Eremire, but with the exception of a small village to the west called _Palmer_ , mārdan is also spoken. 

## **[ Gundar ]** 

Gundar (western) is mainly used in the region west of the kingdom of Saine. The two countries in the north central plains (Orphan and Ramliearth) also have gundar as their mother tongue. 

## 《 **Low Ancient** 》 

Low ancient is the normal language used in the _ancient kingdom_ of Kastuul, which once flourished throughout Alecrast. Although it is now a dead language, its words are still passed down among people and monsters connected to the ancient kingdom. Also, those called sages and sorcerers study low ancient, considering it an almost essential language. This is because you cannot begin to understand the great civilization of the ancient kingdom unless you know low ancient. 

157

## 《 **Racial** 》 

A **racial** language is a language used by a race different from humans. Fae such as elves and dwarves, as well as youma such as goblins and imps, each have their own unique language that has remained unchanged from ancient times to the present day, and is used to communicate among their own kind. 

## **[ Elven ]** 

This is the language used by elves. This language is also used by mythical beasts and magical beasts that live in the forest. The dark elves, who are wicked elves, also use this language as their normal language. 

## **[ Dwarven ]** 

This is the language used by dwarves. There are also other mythical beasts and magical beasts that live in mountains or underground that use this language. 

## **[ Impish ]** 

This is the language used by youma such as imps, gremlins, etc. 

## **[ Centaurian ]** 

This is the language used by centaurs. Other intelligent races that make their home in the meadow region also use this language. It is said that in the past, this had a _high_ language used as runes, but in modern times it’s almost completely lost. 

## **[ Goblin ]** 

The language spoken among goblins. Kobolds and hobgoblins also use this language. It is also said to have the same etymology as dwarven. 

## **[ Giant ]** 

This is the language used by titans such as giants, cyclops, ogres, etc. It is said that the _high_ language of giant are runes comparable to _high ancient_ for humans, but when we usually refer to _giant_ , it's the language that titans use on a normal basis. 

## **[ Harpy ]** 

This is the language used by harpies. Some intelligent flying races can speak this language. 

## **[ Fairy ]** 

This is the language used by smallbodied fae such as fairies and pookas. 

## **[ Merman ]** 

This is the language used by mermen. Other intelligent races that make their home in the sea also use this language. 

## **[ Minotaur ]** 

This is the language spoken by minotaurs. 

## **[ Lizardman ]** 

This is the language used by lizardmen. It is also said to be a lesser language of dragon roar, which are the runes of dragon roar magic. Lizardmen, wyrms, and elder dragons use this language as their normal language. 

## **12.1.3** 

## **Adventurer Languages** 

Of course, adventurers also use language in their lives. Here we will explain which languages adventurers can speak. 

## **Starting Adventurer** 

## **Languages** 

Immediately after creation, an adventurer has the following language abilities. 

1. All adventurers can speak _common_ and _racial_ . 

2. Those with an intelligence of 6 or greater can also read their _mother tongue_ . 

3. Those with an intelligence of 12 or above can additionally _read_ common. 

In the case of humans, grassrunners, and half-elves raised in human society, the _mother tongue_ referred to here is the 

_regional_ language of the region where the adventurer was born and raised. If the adventurer is an elf, dwarf, or half-elf raised in an elven society, mother tongue is the _racial_ language of the race in which the adventurer was born and raised ( _elven_ or _dwarven_ ). 

## **12.1.4** 

## **Learning Unknown Languages** 

Adventurers can study and learn common and normal languages other than their mother tongue. The way to do this is by acquiring (and increasing) bard or sage skill levels. You can only learn to _speak_ with the bard skill. With the sage skill, you can learn both to speak _and_ to read. Adventurers who have learned both to speak and to read can _write_ meaningful sentences using that language. Of course, it's impossible to learn how to read a language that doesn't have written characters. 

Also, you _cannot_ learn runes with these skills. 

When it comes to languages learned through the sage skill, priority is given to reading common and reading low ancient. An owner of the sorcerer skill can read low ancient, so acquiring the sage skill will quickly allow you to learn new languages (if you can read common). 

If an adventurer who has learned low ancient through the sage skill acquires the sorcerer skill, they will not be able to learn another language because _it would just be low ancient again_ . When acquiring these two skills, it is better to acquire them in the order of sorcerer → sage, which gives you a one language advantage. 

The languages that adventurers can learn are shown on Table 12-1: Languages. 

158