## 12.2 Rules for Poison, Illness and Infection

This poison has its normal effect only on women. When a man is affected by this poison and fails to resist, his body undergoes abnormal mutations as a side effect, turning him into a mutant monster. 

For mutant monster details, refer to page 226. 

## **12.2.2** 

## **Illnesses** 

This section summarizes the rules regarding illnesses. 

## **How to Read Illness 12.2.2.1 Details** 

Illness details are expressed as follows. 

## **[ Common Cold ]** 

Symptoms=Fever, cough, sneezing, runny nose, diarrhea, arthritis Rarity=5 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=1 day/5/7 (14) Fatal Depth=5 

Infection Power=Moderate 

This is what they call a cold. It’s accompanied by a slight fever, cough, sneezing, runny nose, etc. Some people may experience diarrhea symptoms or joint pain. You suffer a -1 penalty on all success rolls while you have a cold. As the cold progresses, you may develop a high fever and also have difficulty breathing. 

## 《 **Symptoms** 》 

This briefly describes the conditions that appear in the illness. 

## 《 **Rarity** 》 

This score is used when making a check to see if you know the illness. If an owner of the sage skill or healer skill succeeds on a success roll using _skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score and **rarity** as the target score, they can look at a sick patient and identify which illness they have. This means not only 

knowing the name of the disease, but also its characteristics and how to deal with it. If a disease can be identified, owners of the healer skill can provide appropriate treatment. 

## 《 **Progression Speed/Progression** 

## **Intensity/ Healing Score** 》 

After a certain period of time has elapsed after becoming ill, the illness either progresses further or gets better. The degree of progression of an illness is indicated by a score called **depth** . Immediately after contracting an illness, the _depth_ is 1. After the time indicated by **progression speed** has elapsed since you contracted the illness, roll two dice and look at the result. If the roll is less than the **progression intensity** , the disease gets worse and the _depth_ increases by 1. If the roll is greater than or equal to the _progression intensity_ but less than the **healing score** , the illness neither worsens nor improves, and the _depth_ remains the same. If the result is greater than or equal to the _healing score_ , the illness will be cured and the _depth_ will be reduced by 1. When the _depth_ becomes 0, you are completely recovered. The patient's adventurer level and life force bonus have _no_ influence on this check. Adventurer level may also be hero level, but _even if you're a hero, you cannot win against illness_ . 

Even if a shaman cannot use the spell _Restore Health_ , they can still work with one type of spirit to alleviate symptoms. For example, by working with salamander, fever, which is the main symptom of a cold, can be alleviated. When a shaman performs such a treatment, they gain a +1 bonus on progression/healing checks. 

In addition to these, depending on the illness, there are herbs and special medicines that can provide bonuses to progression/healing checks. 

When the holy magic _Cure Disease_ or _Refresh_ , or the spirit magic _Restore Health_ are cast, the caster must make a success roll using their magic power as 

the baseline score. The target score is double the _healing score_ (added in parentheses). If you succeed, the _depth_ of the illness is reduced by 1 and you can make an additional success roll. You can continue to make this check until you fail or until the illness is completely cured. If this does _not_ completely cure the illness, it’ll be _useless_ to cast these spells on the same patient until the caster's magic power increases. 

If a healer who knows the true nature of an illness cares for the patient for more than one hour per day, they can make a similar check using that healer's _healer skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. However, this must be at each progression speed of the illness (i.e. immediately after the illness's progression check), and you can only make one success roll. However, even if they fail, the same healer can continue to care for the patient. If after some time has passed, an illness progression check occurs, the healer can also make a healing check. 

## 《 **Fatal Depth** 》 

If, as an illness progresses, its _depth_ reaches the **fatal depth** , the character will die from the illness. 

## 《 **Infection Power** 》 

Indicates the infectiousness of the illness. If it’s **very strong** , it has the infection power of a plague. **Strong** is about the same level as influenza. As in the example, **moderate** means it's just a cold, and **weak** means it's not very infectious. When it's **very weak** , it's not infectious and is unlikely to spread to other people. When an illness is _very strong_ or _strong_ , there is a high possibility that the infection will spread to the healer, etc. who is caring for the patient. If the game master determines that there is a possibility of contracting the illness, have the character make a progression check for the illness (compare a 2D roll with progression intensity). If they fail, 

164

the character has contracted the illness at _depth_ 1. 

## 《 **Description** 》 

A detailed description and data on the illness is included at the end. 

## **12.2.2.1 Illness Samples** 

Here are some examples of illnesses seen in _Sword World_ . Most of the illnesses listed here are incurable diseases that are difficult to heal and have a high mortality rate. The game master may also create any other illnesses they desire. 

**[ Green Slime Rot ]** 

Symptoms=Green spots appear on the body, which eventually rots away from there Rarity=15 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=3 days/6/9 (18) Fatal Depth=3 

Infection Power=Moderate 

This is said to be an illness that occurs when the power of gnome in the body weakens and the power of undine becomes stronger. Immediately after infection, itchy green spots about 3 cm in diameter appear all over the body, but at _depth_ 2, the spots emit a putrid odor and a dirty pus begins to flow out. In this state, it’s almost impossible to take action. When the lethal depth of 3 is reached, the entire body rots, dissolves and washes away. The chance of being infected by a character before death is not particularly high, but if you touch the green goo left behind by a character after death, there's a very high chance of being infected. 

## **[ Cotton Weaver ]** 

Symptoms=Cotton-like tissue peels off from the wound 

Rarity=14 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=1 week/5/10 (20) Fatal Depth=3 

Infection Power=Weak 

This is a strange disease that occurs due to a significant decrease in the power of undine within the body. The cause is a 

very small wound on the fingertip, etc. When infected with this illness, the wound will not close at all, but moreover, something that looks like cotton will start to bulge out of the wound. At _depth_ 1, the character's actions are not affected at all. If you pluck a little bit of the cotton, it will instantly disappear, but at 2, the character will fall into a coma and the cotton will come out no matter how much you pluck. Although the progression speed is not that fast, it is an incurable disease that is difficult to treat once contracted. 

## **[ Stone Skin ]** 

Symptoms=The surface of the body gradually becomes hard like stone 

Rarity=14 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=2 weeks/7/11 (22) Fatal Depth=4 Infection Power=Weak 

This is a terrifying illness in which the power of gnome becomes so strong that the surface of the body turns to stone beginning with the feet. At _depth_ 1, your ankles will become stiff and you won't be able to walk. At _depth_ 2, your knees become stiff. At _depth_ 3, your body will become stiff up to the waist, and at _depth_ 4, your chest will become stiff, at which point your character will be unable to breathe and will die of suffocation. However, the disease will continue to progress, and eventually your entire body will become a stone statue. 

## **[ Dance Macabre ]** 

Symptoms=The body keeps dancing separate from the person's will Rarity=13 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=Half day/6/9 (18) 

Fatal Depth=4 Infection Power=Strong 

When a person contracts this illness, their body begins to dance on its own, regardless of their consciousness. Since the person him or herself feels festive while suffering from the illness, it’s believed that this is an abnormal 

manifestation of the power of leprechaun, which is a mind spirit. While suffering from this illness, you’ll suffer a -4 penalty to your attack power and evasion speed, and you will not be able to cast ancient magic or spirit magic. As the _depth_ of the illness increases, the dancing becomes more intense. 

**[ Deep Sleep ]** Symptoms=Excessive sleep, extreme fatigue Rarity=11 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=3 days/6/9 (18) Fatal Depth=5 

Infection Power=Weak 

It’s believed that this illness is caused by the power of the mind spirit sandman becoming too strong. As the illness progresses, the patient will begin to complain of extreme fatigue with even the slightest amount of exercise, and the amount of time spent sleeping each day will increase (use _depth x 3 + 9_ as a standard). The patient will then die when it reaches the fatal depth of 5. The reason for the outbreak of the disease is unknown, but there are many known cases where excessive use of the spirit magic _Sleep_ has brought the disease to shamans. It may also be triggered by an unnatural sleep caused by the ancient magic _Sleep Cloud_ . 

165

## **[ Bat Fever ]** 

Symptoms=Fever Rarity=10 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=3 hours/6/8 (16) Fatal Depth=6 Infection Power=Weak 

This is an illness caused by bat bites. While you have this illness, you suffer a - 1 penalty on all success rolls due to fever. Infections are not often caused except by bat bites. 

## **[ Balloon Burst ]** 

Symptoms=Shortness of breath, body swelling, inability to move, pain throughout the body 

Rarity=12 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=3 days/7/9 (18) Fatal Depth=3 Infection Power=Weak 

This illness causes difficulty breathing, along with body swelling, then you become unable to move, and eventually your body ruptures and you die. 

At depth 1, you suffer from severe breathing difficulties and will be unable to speak or cast spells. At depth 2, your body becomes abnormally swollen and round, and you'll be in severe pain and unable to move. If you reach the fatal depth of 3, your body will rupture and you will die. 

This illness is not seen in cold regions. Due to this, some argue that the spirit power of fire may also be involved in the onset of the illness. 

## **[ Vampire Skin ]** 

Symptoms=Become extremely weak against sunlight 

Rarity=15 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=1 hour/6/9 (18) 

Fatal Depth=5 

Infection Power=Weak 

This is an illness in which the power of dark spirits becomes unnecessarily strong, causing a hypersensitivity to light. At depth 1, painful blisters resembling burns accompany areas exposed to sunlight. At depth 2, vision is weakened 

and most success rolls suffer a -2 penalty. At depth 3 you lose your vision, and at depth 4 you fall into a coma. 

## **[ Humbaba Curse ]** 

Symptoms=Extreme fever, vomiting, diarrhea, shortness of breath 

Rarity=16 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=2 days/7/10 (20) Fatal Depth=4 Infection Power=Very strong 

Characters affected by this illness brought on by the fire of the magical beast humbaba will suffer from severe fever and vomiting, making almost no activity possible. This disease is extremely contagious, classed as a plague. 

## **[ Lycanthropy ]** 

Symptoms=Become a lycanthrope 

Rarity=8 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=Special/7/- (16) Fatal Depth=None Infection Power=Very weak 

This illness, which turns humans into lycanthropes, is thought to be different from normal illnesses caused by abnormalities in spirit power. Some sages claim that this is a type of curse (although these sages' claim is not accepted, as it cannot be removed with a _Remove Curse_ spell). 

Anyone wounded by a lycanthrope must roll 2D. If the roll is a 6 or less, you'll be infected with lycanthropy (the game master must secretly roll the dice if the adventurer does not know that lycanthropy is an infectious disease). 

The progression of lycanthropy differs from the rules of normal illnesses. Those infected with lycanthropy will have swollen wounds and a high fever. This fever continues endlessly. Every night from that day onwards, compare 2D + 3 with _the number of days since the new moon_ (if it's 16 days or more, then _30 - the number of days_ ). Once the score is equal to or less than the number of days, the character becomes a full lycanthrope and transforms into a beast form. This _cannot_ heal naturally. 

Before becoming a full lycanthrope, it can be cured with a spell such as the holy magic _Cure Disease_ , etc. (the target score is 16), but once you become a beast, you _cannot_ be cured again. 

## **[ Rat Disease ]** 

Symptoms=Fever, swelling of joints Rarity=7 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=1 day/5/7 (14) Fatal Depth=5 

Infection Power=Weak 

Those with this illness experience swelling in their joints and suffer from high fevers. If the _depth_ reaches 2 or greater, you will be unable to walk or stand. Infection occurs when bitten by a rat, but it's rarely transmitted from person to person. 

**[ Red Cap ]** Symptoms=Going berserk, change in body shape Rarity=12 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=1 week/5/10 (20) Fatal Depth=5 

Infection Power=Very strong (Infection through gaze) 

When you're exposed to extremely strong fear, such as due to combat, etc. leprechaun, the mind spirit, manifests abnormally and causes this illness. When the illness is at depth 1, symptoms include being unable to move due to being seized by fear and having nightmares every night. When the depth is at 2 or greater, changes will appear in your body shape. You'll become hunched over, your hands abnormally long, your face contorted, and your eyes blazing red. This illness was given its name because the entire body turns red and hair falls out. Patients in this state go berserk and begin to attack things around them at random. Use the details p. 233 when fighting with these patients. 

This illness is transmitted when eye contact is made with someone who's been infected. If you make eye contact with someone who has the illness, a progression check must be made 

166

immediately. In other words, roll two dice, and if the roll does not total 5 or greater, you’ll be infected. 

## **[ Lockjaw ]** 

## Symptoms=Extreme fever, shortness of breath 

## Rarity=7 

Progression Speed/Progression Intensity/ Healing Score=2 days/8/9 (18) 

Fatal Depth=4 Infection Power=Very weak 

A wound can greatly disturb the balance of spirit power within the body, and the power of salamander in particular may become stronger. This results in lockjaw, a disease that causes a severe fever. A character will be unable to do much while suffering from lockjaw due to a high fever. It's not very contagious, but if you leave a wound with mud, etc. the chance of infection is fairly high. It is said that this is because undine and gnome create illusions due to the mud. 

**==> picture [164 x 191] intentionally omitted <==**

## **12.2.3 Herbs** 

Below is a list of **herbs** known in _Forcelia_ . Each has a provided rarity. Those with the sage, ranger, or healer skill can discern herbs by looking at them if they succeed on a success roll using rarity as the target score and _skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. 

Each herb has a **base trade value** . If adventurers are in a large city, they can purchase them at the prices provided here. If an adventurer is lucky enough to obtain these items and sell them, a merchant will buy them for half the prices provided here. The prices are for one day's worth for one adult. You basically have to take them every day to receive a bonus on illness progression/healing checks. 

## **[ Arnica ]** 

## Rarity=10 

Base Trade Value=600 gamels 

This is a perennial plant that’s often found in high mountains. Each plant has 2 to 3 flowers. The flowers can alleviate fever, and when used on a patient suffering from a fever, they'll receive a +2 bonus on progression/healing checks. One flower is enough for one day for an adult. The flowers can only be stored for 2 to 3 days. 

## **[ Upas ]** 

## Rarity=11 

Base Trade Value=360 gamels 

This is a tall tree that has strong fire spirit power and can be found in areas with high average temperatures. The bark of this tree is a type of poison that causes feelings of vomiting. It's not useful for treating illness, but is effective when accidentally taking other poisons, giving you a +2 bonus to resistance rolls. However, it can be dangerous if used too much. A large amount of bark can be removed from one tree and can also be stored. 

## **[ Dulcamara ]** 

## Rarity=13 

## Base Trade Value=320 gamels 

This is a vine-like shrub that can be found in highlands. Its seeds are ground and mixed with oil to make an ointment that's used to treat skin diseases. When used on illnesses that cause severe inflammation of the skin, such as green slime rot, it provides a +2 bonus on progression/healing checks. Dozens of seeds can be harvested from one plant, and 2 to 3 seeds are enough for one adult per day. Seeds can be stored for long periods of time as long as they're in good condition. 

## **[ Henruda ]** 

## Rarity=15 

## Base Trade Value=9800 gamels 

This is an herb that grows in the wilderness and is the staple food of the cockatrice, a magical beast. This herb is useful as a preventative against monsters with the ability to petrify and _Petrification_ magic, but it's also a wonder drug for the dreaded _stone skin_ . If you take this herb daily, you'll receive a +4 bonus to progression/healing checks against _stone skin_ . One henruda plant is enough for one adult for one day. This herb cannot be stored and if it’s not used within three days of being collected, it will have no effect at all. For this reason, it’s rarely sold in town apothecaries. 

## **[ Mandrake ]** 

## Rarity=16 

Base Trade Value=9000 gamels 

The roots of young mandrake are prized as an ingredient in sedatives. If used against an illness that stimulates going berserk, you’ll receive a +2 bonus on illness progression/healing checks. One mandrake is enough for one adult to take for one week. 

Depending on the refining process, mandrake can also be used as an ingredient for aphrodisiacs, poisons, etc. 

167