# 12.3 Work Requests to NPCs

## **[ Lignia Stone ]** 

## Rarity=12 

Base Trade Value=12,000 gamels 

This is an amber stone that comes from the body of the mythical beast lynx. 

If you crush, brew, and drink this stone, you will receive a +4 bonus on progression/healing checks for illnesses that affect the mind (such as dance macabre). One lignia stone harvested 

from one Lynx can provide three days worth of medicine for one adult, and the stone as well as the powder crushed from it can be stored semi-permanently. 

## **12.3** 

## **Work Requests to NPCs** 

You want a high-level sage to appraise the treasure you found during your adventure. You found a beautiful gemstone and would like to have it forged into a ring. As you progress through your adventures, such things will happen. 

In these cases, adventurers can request NPCs to do this kind of work. If it’s a very simple task like those above, you can have it done for _NPC skill level x skill level x 30 gamels_ . For example, if you request an appraisal from a 5th level sage, you will have to pay 5 x 5 x 30 = **750** gamels. If the task becomes a little more complex, use numbers such as x _40_ or x _50_ instead of x 30. Also, if there’s no one 

available to do this for you, there is of course no point in paying any amount of money. 

If the task you're requesting from an NPC is something that will completely restrain that NPC, you will need to **hire an NPC** . In this case, higher compensation is required. The average price per day is about _NPC's skill level multiplied by 50 to 200 gamels_ . 

Please follow the standards on Table 11-2: NPC Presence by Level (see p. 154) to find out which skill level NPCs are in which locations. Of course, this depends on the type of skill. Even in villages, there are likely to be people with a fairly high farmer skill level (although 

it’s unlikely that you’ll ask such people for anything). 

For requests for such work, you'd usually give 10% to 30% as an advance payment. If the work _fails_ , you do _not_ have to pay the remainder. If the contractor willfully abandons the job, it is customary to return double the advance payment to the client. 

This is the price an _adventurer_ must pay when making a request to an _NPC_ . Adventurers _themselves_ cannot go around charging these same rates. If you don't have clients, you won't get paid (so just patiently wait for work at the adventurer shop, okay?). 

**==> picture [450 x 372] intentionally omitted <==**

168