# 13.2.2 Fae

## **13.2.2 Fae** 

## **[ Pixie ]** 

## Monster Level=1 

Rarity=12 Agility=14           Movement Speed=4/7 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 8 (1) Strike Points=2 Evasion Points=10 (3)    Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=7/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=15/9 (2) Special Abilities=2nd level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=11/4) Invisibility 

Habitat=Forests, meadows Languages=Fairy, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

Pixies look similar to elves, but are only about 30 cm tall. They have wings on their backs reminiscent of insects. Most of them have the appearance of women, but there are also individuals that have the appearance of men. Also, for some reason, they seem to be wearing something that looks like clothes. Although they are relatively friendly towards humans, they do not actively interact with humans and rarely appear in public. Moreover, they seem to have a very close relationship with the small spirits called sprites, and have as a basic ability the power of the _Invisibility_ spell that the sprites provide to shamans, which makes them all the more difficult to witness. They can use this ability without any restrictions, and they do not consume mental points by using this ability. However, in order to remain invisible, they need focus, and if they cannot do this, you will not be able to use _Invisibility_ , and even if they do use it, if they lose their concentration (such as when attacking or using other magic, etc.) they will appear instantly. 

They sometimes play pranks on humans. They’ll whisper in your ear while remaining hidden from view, and thrust a weapon in their hand (it appears to be a needle-thin dagger) into your butt. 

Combat is unlikely to occur, but when it does, pixies can use up to 2nd level spirit magic. 

## **[ Fairy ]** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=11 Agility=18        Movement Speed=9/10 (air) Number=Several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly to neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 8 (1) Strike Points=3 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=18/10 (3) Special Abilities=3rd level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5) Habitat=Uncertain Languages=Fairy, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

Fairies are a representative race of fae, and many of them still live in the fairy world, and rarely come to the material world, the world we live in. However, there are some places in the material world that have contact with the fairy world. Stories are often told of humans who inadvertently wandered into the fairy world from these places. 

Fairies are sometimes seen where these two worlds meet. Just as humans wander into the fairy world, there are also fairies who wander from the fairy world into the material world. Fairies take the form of beautiful elf women, often mostly naked or clad in thin silk garments. They are about the same height as elves, but the most prominent difference between them and elves is the beautiful wings that grow from their backs. These wings are very thin but strong, allowing them to fly, albeit at a slow speed. They may carry items such as silver daggers, etc. for self-defense, but they rarely wield them. If they really get into trouble, they will choose to use their power of spirit magic rather than weapons. As they are residents of the fairy world, they have a deep connection with spirits, and use spirit magic up to 3rd level. 

## **[ Pooka ]** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=12 Agility=18 Movement Speed=18 Number=One to several   Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Fist: 11 (4) Strike Points=4 Evasion Points=13 (6)    Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=8/12 (5) Special Abilities=3rd level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5) Shapeshift (Animal) 

Habitat=Forests Languages=Fairy, silent spirit, regional Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

The Pooka is a member of the fairy family that lives in the forest, and looks similar to a grassrunner, but is a little smarter. They're not in the habit of wearing clothes. However, they don't always wander around naked; they have the ability to transform into forest animals, and most of the time they live as animals. While transformed, they can use all of the animal's physical abilities and can also speak. However, they cannot transform into very large animals such as bears, wolves, etc. They mostly turn into foxes, fawns, rabbits, squirrels etc. This transformation cannot be detected even by using _Sense Magic_ or _Sense Aura_ . 

They are friendly to characters they meet in the forest, and will contact them in an attempt to befriend them. However, they like mischief, and in order to surprise you, they will sometimes call out to you while disguised as an animal, hiding their appearance, etc. However, once you get in touch with them, they will help you in many ways. They will guide you through the forest and tell you where dangerous places are. In addition, they will show lifelong loyalty to a character who saves them from danger, and will act together with them. They can use spirit magic. Their shaman skill level is 3. 

176

## **[ Featherfolk ]** 

## Monster Level=4 Rarity=9 Agility=16 

Movement Speed=10/30 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 11 (4) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=12/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=18/13 (6) Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) Habitat=Mountains Languages=Harpy, silent spirit, regional Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

Featherfolk resemble humans, but have bird wings growing from their shoulders, allowing them to fly. Both their men and women look beautiful. They live in rugged mountainous areas, have gentle personalities and do not like fighting, but they despise harpies (furiaspecies). Their language and customs are similar to humans, although their level of culture is somewhat lower. However, they’re not interested in gold or jewelry. 

Featherfolk use swords, bows and arrows, and spears as weapons. They cannot wear heavy armor, only soft leather at most. They use spirit magic and their shaman skill level is 4. Sometimes they keep eagles and griffons for reconnaissance and self-defense purposes. 

and the lower body of fish. Female mermen are called mermaids. They have an extreme fear and hatred of humans and will never try to negotiate with them. This is because over a hundred years ago, a rumor spread that _eating merman flesh will give long life_ , so humans fought and overhunted mermen. Since then, mermen have lived at the bottom of the deep sea, avoiding humans, and their social system and customs are shrouded in mystery. 

Mermen are a species that breathes underwater and cannot breathe on land. They can only act on land for up to _their life points_ rounds (14 rounds), after which they will suffocate. They usually live in groups of about a few dozen. The group has a leader and a shaman who govern the tribe. 

They use a trident as a weapon. 

## **Mermaid Shaman** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=18 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=3/20 (water) Number=One to several  Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=12/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=18/13 (6) Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, water spirits only) 

are both defeated will either join another group or flee. When this is not possible, the mermen will fight to the death. 

## **Merman Leader** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=13 

Agility=16  Movement Speed=3/20 (water) Number=One to several  Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=12 (5)  Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=15/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=17/12 (5) Special Abilities=Water adaptation Habitat=Seas 

Languages=Merman Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Merman tribes select physically superior boys from an early age and give them special training. Those who receive training and grow up will become merman leaders, the head of a combat group of 10 mermen, and command those mermen in battle. Also, a particularly chosen one among them becomes the chieftain who leads the tribe. 

Water adaptation 

## **[ Merman ]** 

## Monster Level=2 

Rarity=11 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=3/20 (water) Number=Several to dozens 

Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Weapon: 9 (2) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=4 

Life Points/Resistance=14/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=16/10 (3) Special Abilities=Water adaptation Habitat=Seas 

Languages=Merman Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Mermen are a race that lives under the sea, with the upper body of a human 

Habitat=Seas Languages=Merman, silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision, illumination) 

Merman tribes select girls with outstanding intelligence and mental power and train them as shamans from an early age. The result is a mermaid shaman. Mermaid shamans can use spirit magic up to 4th level, which is powered by water spirits (undine). There is one mermaid shaman per combat group, and her role is to assist the merman leader. Also, if the merman leader is defeated, she will take command of the battle in his place. A combat group whose leader and shaman 

177