# 13.2.4 Spirits

## **13.2.4 Spirits** 

**[ Will-O-Wisp ]** Monster Level=2 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=18   Movement Speed=20 (air) Number=Solo to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Neutral to violent Attack Points=Disintegrate: Always hits Strike Points=Strike power 10, 

bonus damage 2 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=0 Life Points/Resistance=1/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) Special Abilities=Releases energy and disintegrates 

Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Near forests and swamps, or anywhere Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Will-O-Wisp is a spirit of light. Its main body is a blue-white ball of light about 50 cm in diameter, and its light illuminates a space with a 5-meter radius. They are among the most unstable of spirits and have little to no semblance of intellect. When they appear as mad spirits, there are two actions they can take. First, one will float gently in front of someone and lead them deep into an endless swamp or forest. This type of will-o-wisp will not attack you directly. 

The other type is one that collides directly with anything that comes into view. Will-o-wisps only target things that have a functioning mind. They will not target plants, minerals, vessels, etc. that do not have intelligence. They also will not attack low grade undead that do not have a mind. However, sleeping humans are subject to attack. Please make your judgment based on _whether it has a score called mental power (points)_ . Will-o-wisp attacks are always successful. When a Will-O-Wisp hits its target, it'll simply shatter. However, at the same time, the will-o-wisp emits a powerful shockwave. This shockwave’s damage results from a _strike power 10_ strike roll plus _bonus_ 

_damage 2_ . Armor is ineffective against this attack, and only adventurer level can reduce the damage. 

If you strike a will-o-wisp with a melee weapon (it doesn't have to be silver or magical), you can destroy it, but the attacker will also suffer damage as if they were hit by the will-o-wisp. 

Will-o-wisp is the counterpart to the shade, which is described below, and when it comes into contact with a shade, it disappears without emitting any energy. 

## **[ Shade ]** 

Monster Level=2 Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=20 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Almost none 

Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Disintegrate: Always hits Strike Points=Strike power 10, bonus damage 2, to mental power Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=0 Special Abilities=Energy disintegration that deals damage to mind 

Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Anywhere 

Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Life Points/Resistance=1/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) 

Shade is a spirit of darkness, and also a mind spirit that controls fear. All natural light within 5 meters of its body is canceled out, leaving you in total darkness. Its body seems to be dark and spherical, but it’s impossible to identify its shape because it’s in the dark. Therefore, attacks against shades always suffer a -4 penalty. Since the shade itself has 12 evasion points, it’s unlikely that your attacks will hit it (it’ll definitely disintegrate if they do). They will always attack by ramming any being with a will that comes into their view. Its effect is exactly like a will-o-wisp attack, except that the damage is dealt to mental power instead of life force. Strike power is 10, bonus damage is 2, and only adventurer level can reduce it. 

Shade is the counterpart to the aforementioned will-o-wisp, and when it comes into contact with a will-o-wisp, it disappears without emitting any energy. 

## **[ Brownie ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=14 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=14 Movement Speed=Special Number=Solo to several 

Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral to violent 

Attack Points=Furniture ： 10 (3) Strike Points=5 to 9 Evasion Points=Defense Points=Life Points/Resistance=-/Mental Points/Resistance=18/12 (5) Special Abilities=Physical attack immunity 

Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Teleport (Limited) Illusion 

Habitat=Old mansions 

Languages=Silent spirit, mansion residents’ language 

Perception=Magic 

Brownie is a spirit that appears in old mansions where people have lived for over 50 years. If the humans living in the mansion disappear or die, the brownie may turn into a mad spirit. 

Mad brownies have the ability to create illusions. Some illusions are visual, while others are auditory, making their presence known through visions or strange noises. 

They also have a small amount of telekinesis, and will attack unwanted intruders by hitting them with things inside the mansion. The strike points when this attack hits vary depending on what is used for the attack. A small dish would be 5 points, a knife, etc. would be 7, and a large chest of drawers would be 9. 

Mad brownies also have the ability to teleport, allowing them to appear anywhere in the mansion. Also, they are fully aware of everything happening inside the mansion with their magic senses. 

181

However, these abilities can only be manifested within the mansion, and the brownie cannot leave the mansion. 

Mad Brownies are often influenced by the actions of those who lived there, and in some cases continue to faithfully reproduce those actions through illusions (and telekinesis) after the residents have left. 

Brownies have no substance, and physical attacks have no effect on them at all. However, if their mental points are reduced to 0 or if the mansion they live in is destroyed, they will vanish. 

## **[ Undine ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=10 

Movement Speed=6/10 (water) Number=Solo to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=12 (5)  Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, undine only) 

Enter lungs (Target score for evade and resist=12) 

Mental attack immunity Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Water 

Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Undine is a Water Spirit. Its body is just about 10 liters of liquid. It often takes the form of a small girl, but it can take any form as long as its weight and volume remain the same. Undine has no direct means of attack. They can stick to their opponent and make them uncomfortable, or they can wrap around their face and make them feel pain for a while, but if the opponent has the will to resist, they can easily escape. However, if anyone bathes or swims in a spring or river where this spirit resides, without realizing its presence, the mad undine will do everything it can to drown its opponent, including casting a _Sink_ spell 

to take away their buoyancy or fly directly into their lungs. 

Undine can cast magic sourced from the power of undine without consuming its own mental points (the spells cannot be expanded). Undine's shaman skill level should be 4. 

If a target drinks even a little of an undine's body, this water spirit will enter directly into their lungs. A check for whether or not you’ve taken a drink is made via success roll using " _adventurer level + agility bonus_ " as the baseline score. The target score in this case is 12. This check must be made every round until you escape from the spring or river containing the undine. However, in this case, you can obviously hold your breath. As long as you hold your breath, you don't have to worry about drinking the water. However, the undine's first attack will always be a surprise attack, so in the first round, please make a check to see whether you’ve swallowed the undine or not. 

If a character fails the check, that means they've swallowed the undine. However, the victim can attempt to spit the undine out once swallowed. To do so, you must make a successful life force resistance roll. The target score is still 12. This check may be attempted once per round, but you cannot take any other actions while swallowing the undine. Also, you cannot spit out the undine while underwater. 

The number of rounds in which you can hold your breath, or in which you can survive while swallowing an undine, is equal to your life force. Also, please refer to 10.4: Water Combat (see p. 139) for detailed rules. 

Undines do not leave their habitat, so they are not a threat as long as you can escape from the water. Of course, this attack has no meaning against things that don't breathe air (fish, undead, etc.). The same goes for characters who’ve had _Water Breathing_ cast on them. 

To harm an undine, as with most other spirits, magical or silver weapons are required. 

## **[ Salamander ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=10 Movement Speed=6 Number=Solo to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) 

Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=Fire (Strike power 10, bonus damage 5, Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5) 

Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Fire immunity Not affected by poison and illness Weak to water 

Habitat=Anywhere, provided there’s fire Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Salamanders, which are spirits of fire, look like quadrupedal beasts with a body length of about 1 meter, as they are called by the name _fire lizard_ . However, its entire body is not covered in animal skin but in flames, making it extremely dangerous as it ignites flammable materials around it. A mad salamander, as befitting of a spirit of fire, a symbol of destruction, acts with the sole purpose of burning everything to ash. Salamanders shower you in a _breath_ of fire, which has the same effect as the 1st level spirit magic spell _Fire Bolt_ . This fire always hits, but an adventurer can attempt to resist just the same way they would against magic. A Salamander's fire _breath_ ability should be treated as shaman skill level 4, magic intensity 12 (magic power 5). Even when the Salamander breathes out this fiery _breath_ , it does not consume a single mental point. 

Salamanders are spirits, so their temporary bodies are, so to speak, a modified form of their spirit power, so they cannot be attacked by normal weapons. Iron can obstruct the workings of a spirit, but it cannot be used as a means to extinguish it. To damage a Salamander, you need a magic or magically-imbued weapon, or a silver weapon. Also, when a person using the 

182

spirit magic _Water Screen_ is attacked by a salamander, after the normal effect, 2 points of damage will be dealt to the salamander (the salamander cannot reduce this damage), then the magic’s effect will vanish. You can also deal damage to a Salamander by pouring water on it. The damage is 1 point per liter of water. A salamander cannot reduce this damage either. Conversely, fire attacks have no effect on salamanders. 

## **[ Sandman ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=16/6 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Arm:12 (5) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=6 Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, sandman only) 

Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Teleport 

Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) 

Sandman is a mind spirit that controls sleep. Its figure is that of a small, completely naked child, with no features that would indicate gender. 

A mad sandman indiscriminately uses _Sleep_ spells to try to put others to sleep. No matter how much _Sleep_ it uses, a sandman does not consume any mental points. A sandman can instantly appear wherever there's a working mind, and during combat, it can perform actions while teleporting. 

To wound a sandman, you need magic or a silver weapon. 

## **[ Sylph ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=10 Movement Speed=18 (air) 

Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Special Abilities=Wind cutter (Strike power 10, bonus damage 6, Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) 

4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, sylph only) Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Sylph is a spirit of wind. It appears as a naked elf woman. Its pale upper body is translucent, but from the waist down it is completely invisible and nothing can be seen. Sylph does not have normal methods of attack, but by entangling itself with its target, it can cause a powerful _wind cutter_ attack. This attack cannot be evaded. _Wind cutter_ is treated as strike power 10 damage magic. Its magic intensity is 13 (magic power 6). Sylphs also use spirit magic that is sourced from the power of the wind. Their shaman skill level is 4. However, spirit points are not consumed even if they use wind cutter attacks or spirit magic. To harm a sylph, you need a magical or silver weapon. 

## **[ Sprite ]** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=16 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Fangs: 11 (4) Strike Points=7 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Special Abilities=Transparent 

Make others transparent (resist target score=13) Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit 

Perception=Magic 

Sprites are said to be the spirits that control the emotion of shame (the function of the mind). A mad sprite remains invisible and attacks nearby creatures with its fangs. Because it's invisible, its appearance cannot be identified, but it is said to resemble a leprechaun, etc. When attacking a mad sprite, a -4 modifier will be imposed. Also, you cannot cast magic on mad sprites. 

Mad sprites have the ability to make others invisible. When a mad sprite performs this attack, the target must make a mental power resistance roll (target score 13). If you fail, you will become invisible. Those who have become invisible cannot see themselves either. For this reason, a -2 modifier will be imposed on all physical action checks. This invisibility cannot be removed unless you use _Dispel Magic_ , etc. or defeat the mad sprite. 

To harm a sprite, it must be a silver or magic weapon. 

## **[ Gnome ]** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=10 

Movement Speed=6 (ground)/ 10 (underground) 

Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=Stone (Strike power 20, bonus damage 5, Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5) 

4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5, gnome only) Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Gnome is the spirit of earth. Its appearance resembles that of a dwarf, but its skin is gray and at first glance looks like a rock. They can move 10 

183

meters per round underground. Then, they suddenly appear above ground and attack by throwing stones at you. A gnome can disappear into the ground, move underground, and reappear above ground all in one round. However, the gnome cannot take any other actions during the round in which this action was chosen. A gnome's stones will always hit their target. Treat it as strike power 20 damage magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5). They also use spirit magic that is sourced from the power of the earth. Its shaman skill level is 4. They do not consume mental points even when they throw stones or use spirit magic. 

To harm a gnome, you need a magical or a silver weapon. 

## **[ Frau ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=10 Movement Speed=18 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Special Abilities=Cold (Strike power 10, bonus damage 6, Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6) 

4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, frau only) Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Cold immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Cold regions Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Frau is a spirit of ice and looks very similar to a sylph. Its whole body is pure white, as if covered in frost, becoming more transparent towards the lower half of the body. Therefore, its legs are not visible at all. Its eyes are also pure white. Frau only appear in areas with snow and ice. 

A _mad_ frau attacks by blowing cold air while it flies through the air. Treat this cold air as strike power 10 damage magic (magic intensity/magic power=13/6). Against a frau itself, cold-based magic is 

completely meaningless. Also, when attacking with a weapon, you will only be able to deal damage if it’s a magical or a silver weapon. 

## **[ Leprechaun ]** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=16/6 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Fangs: 11 (4) Strike Points=7 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=10/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, leprechaun only) 

Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Teleport Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Leprechauns are mind spirits who control chaos. Its appearance is that of a completely naked imp, with no features that indicate its gender. In addition to normal movement, they can also perform teleportation. They cannot take any other actions during the round in which this action was chosen The teleportation destination is within the leprechaun's view. Leprechauns are spirits, but in this world they have a complete form, and will attack by biting. Other than that, they also attack (confuse) you with spells such as _Confusion_ and _Forget_ . Their shaman skill level is 4. To harm a leprechaun, you need a magical or silver weapon. 

## **[ Dryad ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=19 Movement Speed=19 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Barehanded: 12 (5) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=10/12 (5) 

Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=Charm (Resist target score=14) 

5th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=14/7, dryad only) 

Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Woods 

Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

Dryads are plant spirits. They usually reside in trees, but a shaman can summon them anywhere there are plants. Their figure is that of a completely naked elf woman, with long green hair wrapped around her entire body. Their skin is also green. 

A mad dryad uses the spirit magic " _Charm_ " to cause division among allies, and tries to block their opponent's movements with " _Binding_ ". Using these spells does not consume any of the dryad’s mental points. 

If magic cannot be cast on the target, the dryad will attack barehanded. 

To harm a dryad, it must be a magical or silver weapon. 

## **[ Mad Spirit of Life ]** 

Monster Level=6 

Rarity=12 (However, a shaman always knows) 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=16 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Strike Points=Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=15/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=25/16 (9) Special Abilities=Age shift (Resist target score=15) 

Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Anywhere Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Magic 

The mad spirit of life appears in the form of a shining white horse. The sages believe this suggests a connection with unicorns. The mad spirit of life does not attack physically. However, its reckless power has a major impact on the lives around it. 

184