## **[ Wyrm ]** 

## Monster Level=8 

## Rarity=18 

Agility=12 Movement Speed=35 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:15 (8)/Tail:15 (8) Strike Points=18/17 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=11 Life Points/Resistance=25/18 (11) Mental Points/Resistance=16/16 (9) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Steep mountains that humans can't pass through Languages=Lizardman Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

A wyrm has the appearance of a large snake, with a body over 15 meters long, and bat-like wings. Its head resembles that of a dragon or wyvern, but it has no legs at all. They have human-like intellect and can speak lizardman, but they do not have the ability to use magic. 

Wyrms are highly territorial, and when other wyrms or giant creatures enter their territory, which is a radius of about 20 kilometers, they will immediately try to drive them out or they may approach them to eat them as food. 

## **[ Buckbaird ]** 

## Monster Level=9 

Rarity=15 

Agility=11 Movement Speed=15 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Ram:17 (10) Strike Points=18 Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=27/19 (12) Mental Points/Resistance=17/17 (10) Special Abilities=Ray (Resist target score=16, one of paralysis/hypnosis/freeze/ brainwashing/metal destruction) 

Not affected by poison and illness 

Sleepless 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=Low ancient Perception=Pseudo 

Among the Magical Beasts created by the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom, buckbairds are especially bizarre. It’s a giant eyeball about one and a half meters in diameter, covered in long black hair, and it somehow floats in the air. There 

seem to be several subspecies, and some have been seen with antennae and short limbs. They are only found in underground labyrinths, but what they eat and how they reproduce is a complete mystery. 

In combat, a buckbaird uses five different types of rays. The game master should roll 1D to determine which ray the buckbaird fires (or if it attempts to ram). The ray can only affect one target. Those targeted by the ray will be unaffected if they succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 16, but will be seriously affected if they fail. This ray cannot affect the buckbaird itself, even if it's reflected using a mirror, etc. 

## **1. Paralysis Ray** 

You will be paralyzed for 6 rounds. 

## **2. Hypnosis Ray** 

You will fall asleep. This is considered natural sleep. 

## **3. Freeze Ray** 

You will freeze instantly and enter a state of suspended animation. Treat this the same way as the spirit magic Ice Coffin (see p. 94). 

## **4. Brainwashing Ray** 

You will think the buckbaird is your ally and attack your allies. This effect lasts 18 rounds. Treat this the same way as magic that belongs to _mind_ . 

## **5. Metal Destruction Ray** 

Destroys metal weapons and armor you are wearing. Magical weapons and armor are not affected. This ray cannot be resisted. 

## **6. No firing** 

It will attack without firing a ray. 

## **[ Hydra ]** 

Monster Level=10 Rarity=13 Agility=9 Movement Speed=12/20 (Underwater) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs: 17 (10) x 9 Strike Points=20 x 9 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=14 

Life Points/Resistance=54/25 (18) Mental Points/Resistance=10/17 (10) Special Abilities=Head regenerate Water adaptation Habitat=Lakes, rivers Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

The hydra is a terrifying serpent with nine heads and a total length of 10 meters. They mainly live in lakes and rivers, but can also act on land without penalty. In combat, a hydra attacks with its nine heads. At this time, it can attack a single target 9 times, or aim at different targets. 

If you attack a hydra with a bladed weapon and deal 6 or more points of damage (20 or more if defense points are taken into account) in one blow, you will have cut off one head, and the hydra's number of attacks will be reduced by 1. A severed head will grow back after 5 rounds, restoring the number of attacks, and also recovering 6 life points. However, if a head is dealt fire or electric damage immediately after it falls off, that head will not regenerate. Once its life points reach 0, its heads will no longer regenerate. 

## **[ Humbaba ]** 

Monster Level=10 

Rarity=15 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Arm:18 (11) Strike Points=17 

Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=18 Life Points/Resistance=21/19 (12) Mental Points/Resistance=21/19 (12) Special Abilities=Gaze (Resist target score=17, petrifying, once every 3 rounds) 

Fire breath that covers one person (Resist target score=17, strike power 20, bonus damage 10 as well as illness/Intensity 7, once every 3 rounds) 

Fire immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Forests 

Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses 

The humbaba is a strange bizarre creature created by the sorcerers of the 

196

ancient kingdom, along with the buckbaird. It looks like a titan with one eye and one leg, and is over 2 meters tall. Its body color ranges from green to yellow, with a head of long hair of the same color growing in all directions like a lion's mane. 

A humbaba will fire a terrifying petrification ray from its one eye, once every 3 rounds. Those struck by this gaze must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17. If you fail, you will instantly turn to stone. Even if this ray is reflected off a mirror, etc. it cannot affect the humbaba. 

A humbaba can also spit fire from its large mouth, which takes up half of its face, once every 3 rounds. The fire is large enough to cover one person, and those hit by the fire will suffer damage resulting from a strike power 20 strike roll plus bonus damage 10. However, if you succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 17, the strike power becomes 10. This damage can only be reduced by adventurer level and magical defense. The humbaba's fire deals damage and at the same time causes a terrible disease. Anyone who suffers even 1 point of damage from the humbaba's fire has a chance of contracting a dreadful illness called _humbaba curse_ . You must roll 2D and if you don't roll a 7 or greater, you will become infected. 

Please refer to page 166 for details on this disease. 

A humbaba cannot use gaze, fire, and normal attacks at the same time. Only one of these attacks can be performed per round. 

## **[ Roc ]** 

## Monster Level=12 

Rarity=13 Agility=10 

Movement Speed=10/40 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Beak:19 (12)/Talons:20 (13) Strike Points=22/22 

Evasion Points=17 (10) Defense Points=16 Life Points/Resistance=40/24 (17) Mental Points/Resistance=20/21 (14) 

## Special Abilities=Capture 

Habitat=Rarely seen on the distant southern islands of Alecrast 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The most feared beast second only to the dragon, the roc is a gigantic bird resembling an eagle, with a wingspan of 20 meters. Once every few years, they may be swept close to the continent by the wind, and are the subject of gossip among sailors. 

A roc's talons alone are over 1 meter long, and it can lift and carry humansized animals with one foot, or a cow or horse with both feet. Those hit by a roc's talon attacks will be grabbed by the talons, lifted into the air, and carried to its nest. Besides roc infants, its nest is said to be full of treasure. Like the griffon, it may have a habit of collecting shiny objects. 

Rock eggs can measure up to 2 meters in diameter, making even newborn infants larger than humans. Here is the data of an infant for your reference. 

## **Infant** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=13 Agility=6 Movement Speed=6 Number=One to several 

Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Beak:10 (3) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=20/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=8/10 (3) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Rarely seen on the distant southern islands of Alecrast Languages=None Perception=Five Senses 

## **[ Dragon ]** 

There are three main types of dragons in Forcelia: ancient dragons (drakes), elder dragons, and lesser dragons. 

All of these dragons are similar in appearance. Their entire body is covered with hard scales, and the color of these scales varies depending on the individual. 

They have a snake-like head and tail, with horns and spikes growing along their spine. Their legs are thick and sturdy, for bipedal walking on the ground. By contrast, their hands are slender, but they can move them dexterously. They have bat-like wings on their backs. These wings are comparatively small for their body size. 

The 30 meter long drake, feared as a _god slayer_ monster, and also a master of a variety of magic, is nowhere to be seen in Forcelia today. It is said that there is no way for a human to ever take on a drake. Even the elder and lesser species, which are weaker than drakes, are far too powerful enemies for humans to face, and those who defeat these dragons are hailed as _dragon slayer_ heroes. 

## **Lesser Dragon** 

Monster Level=10 Rarity=10 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10/30 (air) 

Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:17 (10)/Talon:18 (11)/ Talon:18 (11)/Tail:17 (10) Strike Points=22/21/21/21 

Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=15 Life Points/Resistance=50/24 (17) Mental Points/Resistance=20/19 (12) Special Abilities=Fire breath in a 20 meter forward radius (Resist target score=17, strike power 20, bonus damage 10) 

Roar of fear (Resist target score=17) Fire immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Mountains, caves, other 

Languages=Lizardman Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

Lesser dragons are about 15 meters long. They have low intellect, and do not use magic. There is an outlook that they are like giant beasts, living according to instinct rather than thought. 

Lesser dragons have the ability to breathe fire, and are also resistant to fire. The lesser dragon's flames spread out in a semicircle, with a 20 meter forward radius. Those within range must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17. If you fail, you’ll suffer 

197

damage resulting from a strike power 20 strike roll plus 10 points of bonus damage. The use of fire is at the dragon's discretion, and there is no limit to the number of times it can use it, but it cannot make physical attacks with fangs or claws on the same round in which it uses fire. 

the word and cannot be put to sleep by magic. 

## **Elder Dragon** 

Monster Level=15 Rarity=10 Agility=10 

Movement Speed=10/30 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:22 (15)/Talon:23 (16)/Talon:23 (16)/Tail:22 (15) Strike Points=28/27/27/27 

A dragon's roar also brings intense fear to those who hear it. Anyone who hears the dragon's roar must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17. If you fail, determine the effect using Table 5-5: Fears (see p. 89). Treat this the same as magic that belongs to _mind_ . A dragon cannot breathe fire or attack with their fangs or claws on the same round in which it roars. 

Evasion Points=20 (13) Defense Points=21 Life Points/Resistance=70/32 (25) Mental Points/Resistance=30/26 (19) 

Special Abilities=10th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=20/13) 

10th level dragon roar magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=20/13) Fire breath in a 30 meter forward radius (Resist target score=22, strike power 30, bonus damage 15) 

Dragons may take long periods of rest called _dormant season_ , but they do not require sleep in the normal sense of 

Roar of fear (Resist target score=22) 

**==> picture [361 x 407] intentionally omitted <==**

## Fire immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Mountains, caves, other Languages=Lizardman, low ancient Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

Elder dragons are about 20 meters long. Unlike lesser dragons, they have high intellect and sometimes use ancient magic. Some sages claim that this is based on the lost dragon roar, and should not be called _ancient_ magic, although the results are the same. Furthermore, they can also use dragon roar magic that uses the lost dragon roar (though they possess most of their abilities without using magic). 

Elder dragons also have the ability to breathe fire. Elder-species' fire spreads in a 30-meter forward radius, and those who fail a mental power resistance roll against target score 22 will suffer damage resulting from a strike power 30 strike roll plus bonus damage 15. They also have the _roar_ ability which causes fear. The target score to resist is 22. 

Like lesser-species, elder-species can only use one of fire, roar, or physical attack (or magic) in one round. 

198