# 13.2.7 Animals

## **13.2.7 Animals** 

**[ Wolf ]** 

Monster Level=1 Rarity=5 Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 Number=Several to around ten Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fangs: 8 (1) Strike Points=5 

Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=14/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=6/8 (1) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Woods, meadows, near human villages 

Languages=None 

Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Wolves are carnivorous and usually act in packs of several to several dozen. They are also nocturnal, which means their activity is limited to the night. They systematically attack unsuspecting animals that are separated from their herd. They do not attempt to fight opponents that are stronger or outnumber them, and will immediately run away if they find themselves at a disadvantage. 

Rarely, wolf cubs are captured and sometimes domesticated as hunting dogs. Such wolves have greater morals than normal ones, and will fight to the death to protect their masters. 

## **[ Giant Rat ]** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=6 Agility=18 Movement Speed=20 Number=Several to around ten 

Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:8 (1)/Claw:9 (2)/Claw:9 

(2) Strike Points=4/3/3 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=9/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=7/8 (1) Special Abilities=Disease (Intensity 5) Habitat=Underground tunnels, caves, ruins Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

A giant rat is a huge rodent, about 1 meter long. However, they are intelligent 

and dexterous, and thus can stand on their hind legs and use simple tools. They are omnivorous, and usually live in groups. They are timid by nature and will not attack unless you seriously provoke them or invade their burrow without them knowing. Even on the rare occasion that they do attack you, they will quickly run away if you wound them, and you can easily drive them away with fire. 

Adventurers wounded by a giant rat's fangs or claws are at risk of contracting an illness. You must roll 2D again. If you roll a 4 or less, you will contract _rat disease_ . Please refer to p. 166 for _rat disease_ details. 

## **[ Hanger Leg ]** 

## Monster Level=1 

Rarity=13 Agility=18 Movement Speed=8 Number=One. However, eggs are often found in groups   Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Needle: 8 (1) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=8/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=8/8 (1) Special Abilities=Parasitism (Resist target score=8) Habitat=Forests 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

This headless octopus-like creature is a vicious parasite that lives by taking over the bodies of large animals, and has no visible distinction between male and female. Its body is only 20 cm long, but its supple legs, which also serve as tentacles, are equipped with countless suckers, and can stretch to over 1 meter when extended. Also, its jumping power and strangling power are not something to be underestimated. It can easily jump up to 3 meters, and once it attaches itself to a creature's head, it won't come off even if a giant pulls at it. 

Then, needles extended from the tips of the legs are embedded into the opponent's brain. In addition to absorbing nourishing blood from the blood vessels, the needles also have the 

function of paralyzing the opponent’s brain and controlling their nervous system. The victim must make a life force resistance roll against target score 8, and if they fail, their body is taken from them regardless of their will. If your armor and adventurer level prevent you from suffering substantial damage, the needles will not pass through to your head and you will not need to make a resistance roll. However, once the attack hits, the hanger leg will now be lodged in the victim's head, so all subsequent attacks will automatically succeed. 

A hanger leg that is lodged in a head cannot be removed by force. If other allies want to help, they must attack and be prepared to hit their own ally. Please refer to _Attacks and Magic Against Grapplers_ on page 266. 

A hanger leg can freely use the body of the victim it's taken over. However, even if its opponent has human intellect, it cannot speak their languages, nor can it take their knowledge and experience as its own. Of course, using magic is out of the question. Nevertheless, all motor functions and physiological abilities are at the will of the parasite. 

When a hanger leg attaches itself to an adventurer, it cannot use that person’s skills or adventurer level as is. Although it can perform the corresponding actions, the final score will be the result of rolling the dice as if it did not have any skills, plus 1 point bonus from the parasite's adaptive ability. 

An unfortunate victim of a hanger leg's possession will lose all senses, unable to see or hear anything, and furthermore, will be unable to think. Naturally, you cannot escape on your own, but once killed, the parasite leaves the host's body. Conversely, if the host dies, it'll attempt to possess the nearest living creature. 

Also, when death is near, the hanger leg will form several balls under the flesh hardened with secretion and lay small eggs. These eggs will hatch and grow inside the balls, and when they grow up, they will form a cocoon and sleep until a 

199

host creature approaches. Then, when the long-awaited opportunity arrives, they are quick to pounce on such an unwary creature. 

Fortunately, however, they rarely attach themselves to humans, usually preferring to possess animals and livestock. 

## **[ Eagle ]** 

## Monster Level=2 

Rarity=6 

Agility=18 Movement Speed=8/30 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal 

Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Beak: 9 (2)/Talons: 10 (3) Strike Points=5/5 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=16/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=7/9 (2) Special Abilities=Opponent’s attack is -2 Habitat=Mountains 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

Eagles are large, carnivorous birds. They attack their opponents from the air with their claws and beak. When an adventurer attacks an eagle, they will suffer a -2 penalty to their attack because it’s airborne. An eagle can grab and carry away a medium-sized animal, such as a dog 

In some regions, eagles and hawks are tamed and used for hunting. They are very proud creatures by nature and are reluctant to get used to humans, but once one opens up to you, they will serve you for the rest of their lives. 

## **[ Giant Centipede ]** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=7 Agility=10 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs: 9 (2) Strike Points=6+poison Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=16/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=5/8 (1) Special Abilities=Poison (Toxicity score 9, motor function decline=success roll-2) Mental attack immunity 

Habitat=Damp, gloomy places such as deep forests, jungles, caves, ruins, etc. Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The giant centipede is an abnormally developed giant bug, with a body length that ranges from about 30 cm to 1 meter. Their long and narrow, multi-segmented bodies are lined with dozens of legs, which they use to twist and crawl along, attacking and feeding on those who get in their way. 

A giant centipede's fangs are poisonous. An adventurer bitten by a giant centipede must make a life force resistance roll against target score 9. If you fail, your motor nerves will be affected, and will suffer a -2 penalty on all success rolls. The effects of this poison last for 3 days. 

## **[ Giant Lizard ]** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=8 Agility=13 Movement Speed=13 Number=Several to around ten Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fangs:9 (2)/Claw:10 (3)/ Claw:10 (3) Strike Points=8/7/7 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=14/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=9/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Jungles, deserts, wastelands, watersides 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The giant lizard is a huge reptile with a body length of just over 2 meters. They're carnivorous and not very ferocious, and will only attack when they're hungry. 

## **[ Giant Wasp ]** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=10 Agility=16 Movement Speed=5/18 (air) Number=One Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Neutral, aggressive during spawning season Attack Points=Stinger:9 (2) Strike Points=7+poison Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=8/9 (2) 

Mental Points/Resistance=6/9 (2) Special Abilities=Poison (Toxicity score 12, paralysis) 

Mental attack immunity Habitat=Warm Forests 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

This is a wasp about 1 meter long, with a black body and a red band on its belly. They do not build hives like honeybees, and will not attack you unless you attack them. However, during the autumn spawning season, the females become ferocious. This is because they have to attack animals to lay their eggs. 

A giant wasp's stinger is poisonous (toxicity score 12). Those dealt damage by a wasp's attack must succeed on a life force resistance roll, or else the poison will paralyze their bodies, leaving them in a state of suspended animation. This state of suspended animation lasts semipermanently. A giant wasp will drag paralyzed prey to its burrow, lay eggs inside them, then hide the entrance to the burrow with dead leaves, etc. Wasp larvae grow by feeding on the flesh and organs of their prey. 

## **[ Horse ]** 

**Warhorse** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=5 Agility=12 Movement Speed=30 Number=Depends on the situation Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Depends on the rider 

Attack Points=Heel:8 (1) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=18/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=10/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

This is a riding horse trained to follow the will of its rider, even in battle. It can attack at the same time as the rider, unless the rider performs a _lance charge_ (see page 270). The rider basically holds the reins with one hand, and a weapon 

200

with the other. This means you can't use shields or two-handed weapons. 

To fight on horseback, you must make a success roll against target score 7 each round using _adventurer level + agility bonus_ as the baseline score. If you attempt to control your horse without using the reins, you will suffer a -4 penalty to your final score. 

## **[ Wardog ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=10 Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 Number=Depends on the situation Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Depends on the user Attack Points=Fangs: 10 (3) Strike Points=10 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

A wardog is a breed of dog that has been bred through crossbreeding, specially trained for combat, and is a specialty of the kingdom of Azarnia (the Azarn Islands). They're characterized by entirely black bodies, pointed ears and snout, almost no tail, and a slender physique. They can fight more than equally against normal soldiers, even if their opponents are well armed. No matter how unfavorable the situation becomes, they will not run away unless commanded to do so. A wardog never barks unless commanded to do so in advance. 

## **[ Killer Shark ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

## Rarity=8 

Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 (water) Number=One to several 

Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fangs:10 (3) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=25/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=6/10 (3) 

## Special Abilities=Water adaptation Habitat=Seas 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

Killer Sharks belong to the so-called man-eating shark family, but they are particularly large, ferocious, and cunning. They're about 5 meters long, and will attack anything that moves in the sea, chomping it to pieces with the sharp fangs in their huge mouths. Killer sharks will continue to grow as long as they live. The data listed here is for an average adult shark. For older ones, set the monster level to 4 and apply +1 to each score. Some young killer sharks have a monster level of 2. Apply -1 to each score. 

## **[ Crocodile ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=6 

Agility=12 Movement Speed=6/12 (water) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Large jaws:10 (3)/Tail:10 (3) Strike Points=12/10 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=20/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=6/10 (3) Special Abilities=Strangling with large jaws Water adaptation 

Habitat=Wetlands such as jungles, swamps, etc. 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

Crocodiles are large carnivorous reptiles. Their standard body length is 1.5 meters, but larger ones can exceed 3 meters. Such giant crocodiles are also called alligators. They are ferocious by nature and will attack indiscriminately if they are hungry. Attacks with their large jaws are powerful, and once they bite an opponent, they will not let go and continue to deal damage. Please resolve this as strangling (see p. 236). After biting down on their prey this way, crocodiles like to drag them underwater to eat it. 

A crocodile's tail is also a powerful weapon, but it cannot attack the same target with its jaws and tail at the same time. 

## **[ Giant Scorpion ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=8 Agility=12 Movement Speed=14 Number=Several to around ten 

Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Pincer:11 (4)/Pincer:11 (4)/ Needle:10 (3) Strike Points=9/9/12+poison Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=18/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=5/9 (2) Special Abilities=Poison (Toxicity score 10, death after 1 Hour) 

Mental attack immunity Habitat=Deserts, wastelands 

## Languages=None 

Perception=Five senses 

The giant scorpion is a huge scorpion with a body length of over 3 meters. Their personality is ferocious, moreover, they're carnivorous, always hungry and when any moving thing comes into view, they'll attack it immediately. 

When in combat, a giant scorpion can use the pincers on its arms and the barb on its tail to attack different targets (of course, it can also concentrate its attacks on a single target). The barb on the tip of its tail is a stinger that secretes a deadly poison (toxicity score 10), and those stung must make a life force resistance roll. If you fail, your whole body will become paralyzed after an hour, then you will draw your last breath. 

## **[ Giant Mantis ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=13 Agility=18 Movement Speed=18/20 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Sickle:10 (3)/Sickle:10 (3) Strike Points=8/8 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=7/10 (3) Special Abilities=Strangling with sickles (1D: 1-3 right arm, 4-6 left arm) Mental attack immunity Habitat=Remote Deserts and Wastelands Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

201

This is a praying mantis about the size of a human, with quick movements, it unleashes two sickles to kill and eat animals. It is also able to fly over a distance of several tens of meters. 

When attacking a human, a giant mantis will use its sickles to capture their arms and attempt to block their movement. Anyone hit by a giant mantis's attack will have one arm trapped. You must roll the dice to determine which arm is trapped. Roll 1D, and if it's 1-3, it'll be the right arm, but if it's 4-6 it'll be the left arm. Ancient magic cannot be used while one arm is trapped. Also, on subsequent rounds, you cannot escape from the giant mantis, so your evasion points will be -4. In order to escape from a sickle that’s trapped your arm, you must succeed on a resistance roll against target score 10 (or attack points from when the attack hits, if using optional rules) using _adventurer level + strength bonus_ as the baseline score. If you cannot escape, you will suffer 8 points of damage from strangling (see p. 236). This damage can be reduced by armor and adventurer level. 

On the other hand, while capturing a human's arm with one sickle, a giant mantis can only use its other sickle to attack, and since it cannot move freely, its evasion points will be reduced by -2. 

## **[ Scarlet Vulture ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=10 Agility=15 Movement Speed=10/30 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Beak:10 (3)/Talons:11 (4) Strike Points=6/6 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=9/10 (3) Special Abilities=Capture Opponent’s attack is -2 Habitat=Mountains, meadows Languages=None Perception=Five senses (darkvision) 

The scarlet vulture is a large carnivorous bird, with a wingspan of up to 4 meters while both wings are spread. It is so called because its wings and the top of its head are bright red. Although it is a member of the vulture family, so to speak, it regularly eats live meat, rather than dead meat. It can lift anything from small animals such as dogs, cats, etc. to things the size of a human child into the air. It tries to kill its prey by dropping it from a high altitude, or by pecking what it catches with its beak. The scarlet vulture has strong legs, and can move quite freely on the ground. 

Those hit by a scarlet vulture's claw attack, if they’re of a suitable size (a grassrunner is _of a suitable size_ ), will be lifted into the air. 

If the Scarlet Vulture's claw attack hits an object of a suitable size (the Grass Runner is a "reasonable size"), it will be lifted into the air. Those who are caught, even if not lifted into the air, will suffer a -2 penalty to evasion speed against the beak attack. 

This bird can see things even at night. At this time, its eyes reflect a small amount of light, and glow red. 

To attack scarlet vulture while in the air, you must suffer a -2 penalty to attack power. 

## **[ Tiger ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=6 Agility=21 Movement Speed=25 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Fang:10 (3)/Claw:11 (4)/ Claw:11 (4) Strike Points=11/10/10 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=20/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=7/10 (3) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Deep in forests Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination) 

Tigers are fierce, carnivorous beasts that usually act alone. Despite their large size, they possess the graceful and flexible movements characteristic of the cat family, and are among the strongest 

of all ordinary animals. If they’re hungry, they may also attack humans. 

It is said that once a tiger learns the taste of human flesh, it becomes a _maneating tiger_ , which aggressively attacks humans. 

## **[ Bat ]** 

There are many different types of bats in _Forcelia_ . Some of these bats are not very strong, but have characteristics that make them dangerous monsters. Here we will introduce three of them. 

## **Bat** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=5 Agility=18 Movement Speed=10 Number=Several to around ten Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Animal Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:8 (1) Strike Points=3 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=7/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=6/8 (1) Special Abilities=Disease (Intensity 6) Opponent’s attack is -2 Habitat=Places sunlight does not reach, such as caves, etc. Languages=None 

## Perception=Five senses (sonar) 

They often sleep hanging from the ceiling of their caves during the day, and are mainly active at night. They are sensitive to light, and if an adventurer with a light carelessly enters the nest, they may blindly attack in groups. 

When attacking a bat, you’ll suffer a - 2 penalty due to the bat's keen perception, plus the fact that it's flying in the air. 

Those bitten by a bat-- those whose life force has been dealt damage by a bat's attack --are at risk of contracting a fever. Roll 2D again. If you roll a 5 or less, you’ll be infected with _bat fever_ . Please refer to page 166 for details on _bat fever_ . 

## **Vampire Bat** 

Monster Level=2 Rarity=10 Agility=19 Movement Speed=20 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based 

202