# 13.2.8 Plants

The killer octopus is an aggressive octopus with tentacles up to 2 meters long. They kill and eat large fish, but they also attack human swimmers. 

A killer octopus will use all of its tentacles to attack one target, constricting the opponent with its entire body. Please follow the rules for strangling (see p. 236). 

## **Giant Octopus** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=12 Agility=10 Movement Speed=5/20 (water) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Hunger-based Attack Points=Strangle (8 times):16 (9) Strike Points=16 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=50/21 (14) Mental Points/Resistance=10/14 (7) Special Abilities=Strangling Habitat=Seas 

Languages=None Perception=Five senses 

The giant octopus is almost legendary, feared by fishermen and sailors as the devil of the sea. Its tentacles, which are up to 10 meters long, can entangle boats and sink them. 

A giant octopus can use each of its eight tentacles to perform a strangling (see p. 236) attack on separate targets. If you deal 5 or more points of damage (14 or more points of damage if defense points are taken into account) to a giant octopus with a bladed weapon, you’ll have cut off one of its tentacles, and the octopus’ number of attacks will be reduced by one. 

## **13.2.8** 

## **Plants** 

**[ Creeping Tree ]** Monster Level=2 Rarity=10 Agility=11 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Violent 

Attack Points=Tentacles:9 (2) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=25/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) Special Abilities=Strangling Mental attack immunity Weak to fire 

Habitat=Forests, meadows, human villages rarely 

Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Creeping trees do not have roots underground, but move around on the ground using their roots like imitation toes. They then use their tentacle-like branches to prey on animals that approach. Tentacle attacks are resolved the same way as strangling (see p. 236). When it stands still, it looks like an old oak tree covered in vines. 

Since it is a plant, it is weak against fire attacks, and when using spells such as _Fire Weapon_ and _Fire Bolt_ , you gain a +10 bonus to the usual strike power of spells. However, they do not have human-like minds, so spells that cause mental effects have no effect at all. 

## **[ Ethnoa ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=18 Agility=14 Movement Speed=0 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=None 

Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Tentacles:9 (2) Strike Points=5 

Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=19/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) Special Abilities=Capture with tentacles 

Digest (Swallow whole) Mental attack immunity Weak to fire 

Habitat=Woods Languages=None Perception=Magic 

An ethnoa is a plant about 3 meters tall, with six tentacles and a large, openmouthed pouch. Each tentacle is about 4 meters long, and will wrap around anything that comes near, and throw it into the pouch. The pouch contains a strong acid, which dissolves its prey. An 

ethnoa can attack using all six tentacles at the same time, but it can use only two against a single target. If an adventurer is hit by an ethnoa's tentacles, they will suffer damage and also become entangled in the tentacles. On the next round, you must make a resistance roll using _adventurer level + strength bonus_ as the baseline score and the ethnoa's attack points (or the final score from when the attack hits) as the target score. If you fail, the poor adventurer is thrown into the pouch that makes up the bulk of the body. If you’re unfortunate enough to be entangled by two tentacles, you must make two resistance rolls and succeed on both. 

Those thrown into the pouch will suffer strike power 10 damage plus bonus damage 3 each round, starting on the next round. Against this acid damage, only adventurer level helps damage reduction, and armor defense power is completely ineffective. 

While the victim is still conscious, they can attack from within using a dagger, shortsword, or similar small bladed weapon. This attack suffers a -4 penalty to hit. However, the damage dealt is as per the normal rules. The victim cannot escape from inside unless the ethnoa dies. 

There may be cases where the property of former victims remains undigested inside the ethnoa’s pouch. It's a low probability for these treasures to remain, but their value is usually around 100 to 1000 gamels per creature. 

## **[ Killer Creeper ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 

Agility=5 Movement Speed=0 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Vine:10 (3) 

Strike Points=7 

Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=30/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) Special Abilities=Strangling 

Mental attack immunity Weak to fire Habitat=Woods 

212

## Languages=None Perception=Magic 

A killer creeper is a vine. This vine can crawl on the ground and if there are trees, etc. it can attach itself to them and grow. A single vine may grow over a radius of several tens of meters. 

If an animal, etc. steps into a killer creeper thicket, the killer creeper will attack them by entangling its vines around them. It'll then strangle the animal to death. The corpse is eventually returned to the soil to provide nourishment for the killer creeper. 

If a ranger or sage succeeds on a success roll against target score 12 using _ranger/sage skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score, they will be able to see the killer creeper's true identity before it approaches, and thus avoid the encounter (this is considered a use of _plant and animal check_ and _monster check_ ). If they fail, the adventurer will have stepped into the killer creeper without realizing it. This is always a surprise attack, so for one round, only the killer creeper can attack. The adventurer's evasion will suffer a -4 penalty. 

A killer creeper attacks by entangling with its vines. There is an immeasurable number of these vines, but only three vines can attack a single target at the same time. If the killer creeper's attack hits, the vines will entangle the target. Entangled vines automatically deal damage in subsequent rounds without requiring a hit check. Also, characters who are entangled in the vines will suffer a penalty on attack and evasion from then on. If you’re entangled in one, this is -2, and if you’re entangled in two or more, it’s -4. 

A character entangled in two or more vines cannot use ancient magic or spirit magic, because they're unable to move. However, holy magic can be used freely. 

A character entangled in vines can also attempt to pull the entangled vines off instead of making a normal attack. Make a success roll using _adventurer level + strength bonus_ as the baseline score and the killer creeper's attack points (10, 

or the final score from when the attack hit) as the target score. If successful, you can pull off the vines. If entangled in multiple vines, you must make separate checks for each. When you pull the vines off, 1 point of damage per vine is dealt to the killer creeper's life points. 

## **[ Mandrake ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=16 

Agility=8 Movement Speed=8 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Barehanded:12 (5) Strike Points=7 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) 

Mental Points/Resistance=12/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=12/5, gnome, dryad only) 

Scream (Resist target score=12, once per day) 

Mental attack immunity Weak to fire Habitat=Forests Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

A mandrake is a plant with humanshaped roots, and when it's young, it grows underground like a normal plant, but in the seventh year after its seeds are sown, it crawls out from the soil and begins walking around the forest. It looks like an even uglier version of a goblin, with long leaves growing out of its head instead of hair. Despite being plants, they have some intellect and can use spirit magic sourced from the power of dryad and gnome. 

When a mandrake is hurt, it makes a terrifying scream. A Mandrake can only scream once per day. Anyone who hears this at close range without first wearing earplugs must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 12. If you fail, you cannot attack or cast spells for one full round, and you suffer a -4 penalty to evasion. At this time, if you roll double ones on your resistance roll, you will immediately go insane and become disabled. 

Additionally, those who fail the resistance roll must make another one, this time a life force resistance roll against target score 12. If you fail, you will lose your hearing. At this time, if you roll double ones on the resistance roll, your life force will instantly become zero. 

Young Mandrake root is prized as an ingredient for sedatives, stimulants, and poisons. For this reason, humans often find and dig up young mandrakes. Young mandrakes scream like their parents, but they’re small and unable to move or cast spells, making them easy to kill. Therefore, mandrakes deeply hate humans. 

## **[ Alraune ]** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=16 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Barehanded:13 (6) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=14/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=18/15 (8) 

Special Abilities=4th level spirit magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=13/6, gnome, dryad only) 

Scream (Resist target score=13, once per day) 

Mental attack immunity Habitat=Human villages Languages=Silent spirit Perception=Five senses (infravision) 

If you feed a young mandrake root with human blood and nurture it, it will grow to look exactly like a human. This is called an alraune. They cannot grow with the blood of fae, youma, etc. Alraune look exactly like humans, and can speak and think like humans, but when they are wounded, a thick, red mucus oozes out of them. When hurt, it'll let out a scream with the same effect as that of a mandrake’s. The target score for resisting an alraune's scream is 13. 

Alraune are also naturally able to use spirit magic, which is sourced from the power of dryad and gnome. 

It is said that the appearance and personality of an alraune will resemble 

213