## 13.2.9 Undead

A dullahan is a ghost that appears as a headless knight wearing armor. The armor shines as if it were freshly made. A dullahan carries a one-handed sword and no shield, but it's no wonder, as it carries its own head in its spare hand! 

A Dullahan rides a chariot pulled by a headless horse (the horse is called a headless horse and the chariot is called a chariot of dullahan) and appears late at night at the door of the house it's aiming for. Then, it knocks on the door. When a resident opens the door and looks out, the dullahan points inside the house and prophesizes _death_ , then leaves. Around one year later, the dullahan reappears at the house, chooses one person in the house, and kills them. 

A dullahan can summon its chariot and headless horse at any time and in any place. However, one (?) dullahan has only one chariot and two headless horses, and if these are defeated, they cannot be summoned again. 

You can avoid a death prophesied by a dullahan by killing it the first or second time it appears. It’s no use for those who have received the prophecy of death to move away. The dullahan will always appear at the place you moved to (or to one of the places moved to, if the residents have split up and moved to different places), even if it's on the sea, or in a room that's been walled off on all sides....... 

A dullahan can only be wounded by silver or magical weapons. 

## **Chariot of Dullahan** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=14 Agility=16 Movement Speed=30/30 (air) Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Ram:14 (7) Strike Points=15 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=30/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=-/12 (5) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity 

Certain weapons resistant Mental attack immunity Certain magic immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Unknown, appears with (or summoned by) dullahan Languages=None Perception=None 

A chariot ridden by a dullahan, which has the ability to fly. The chariot can also attack while moving up to a maximum of 90 meters in one round. Also, it can _hit-and-run_ different opposing characters again and again. A dullahan riding and controlling a chariot cannot attack on its own at the same time (because it’s pulling the reins with one hand and holding its head in the other). Headless horses also cannot attack while pulling a chariot. 

A chariot can only be dealt damage by silver or magical weapons. Furthermore, additional critical damage cannot be dealt by _swords_ , _spears_ , _clubs_ , _bows_ , _crossbows_ , or _barehanded (with magic cast)_ . Criticals can occur as usual with _axes_ , _maces_ , _flails_ , _slings_ , _rocks_ , and _warhammers_ . 

In the case of magic, _cold-type_ and _poison gas-type_ magic is completely ineffective, but other damage magic are effective. _Turn Undead_ has no effect. Also, healing magic cannot deal damage. 

To attack a dullahan aboard a chariot, you must suffer a -2 penalty to attack power. You can attack a headless horse that is pulling a chariot normally. 

When its master dullahan is defeated, or when any one of the headless horses pulling it are defeated, the chariot loses the ability to act. 

## **Headless Horse** 

Monster Level=4 Rarity=14 Agility=12 Movement Speed=30/30 (air) Number=Two horses Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Heel:10 (3) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=-/12 (5) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness 

Damage from healing magic Habitat=Unknown, appears with (or summoned by) dullahan Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Headless horses are the horses that pull the chariot with a dullahan on board, and can gallop through the air. They act faithfully to their master's commands and may also attack enemies. They cannot attack while pulling the chariot, but the dullahan can freely _detach_ the chariot from the headless horses at will. 

When a headless horse's master dullahan is defeated, it loses its ability to act. 

## **[ Undead Knight ]** 

Monster Level=8 

Rarity=14 

Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:15 (8) Strike Points=17+mental damage Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=13 Life Points/Resistance=21/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=24/18 (11) Special Abilities=Steal mental power (Strike power 10, bonus damage 8) 

Gaze (Resist target score=15, mental damage, strike power 10, bonus damage 8) 

Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Damage from healing magic Habitat=Ruins, deep in the woods Languages=Regional Perception=Pseudo 

An undead knight is a ghost that appears in the form of a knight wearing armor, holding a large two-handed sword. Both the sword and armor have red rust and no sheen. You can touch the armor, but apart from the glowing red eyes behind the helmet, there's nothing to be found inside. After defeating an undead knight, all that remains is an empty, rusty suit of armor and a sword. 

This monster wanders around alone, making its home in places humans don’t approach. This monster roams alone in inaccessible places.  Based on this, some sages claim that undead knights are the 

218

mere shadows of the former holy warriors of Pharis. It is said that they fell on their journey to defeat evil, but their will to fight remained and they turned into ghosts. Naturally, the priests of Pharis deny this, while agreeing with a different claim, which is that they're sentinels created by necromancy during the ancient kingdom period. 

Undead knights cannot be wounded by ordinary weapons. You will need a silver or magical weapon to defeat them. Also, if an undead knight's attack hits, the character will suffer damage to their mental power in addition to normal damage. This damage is calculated as strike power 10 plus bonus damage 8, and armor defense power is useless. Only adventurer level and magical defense effects will work. 

An undead knight can similarly drain the mental power of its enemies with its gaze. As a result, anyone struck by an undead knight's gaze (even from behind) will suffer damage to their mental power. Those whose mental power is reduced to 0 due to damage from an undead knight's weapons or gaze will die instantly and will be resurrected as a wight 24 hours later. For this reason, an undead knight may be accompanied by multiple wights. These wights are sometimes specifically called _squire wights_ . 

## **[ Wraith ]** 

## Monster Level=8 

## Rarity=14 

Agility=24 Movement Speed=24 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very Rare Intellect=High Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=- Strike Points=- 

Evasion Points=Defense Points=- 

Life Points/Resistance=-/- 

Mental Points/Resistance=16/16 (9) Special Abilities=8th level ancient magic (Magic Intensity/Magic Power=18/11) Retains previous skills Physical attack immunity Sleepless Instantly killed by sunlight 

## Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=Those previous (always includes low ancient) 

## Perception=Pseudo 

A wraith is a being whose ethereal body was separated from its physical body by the ancient magic spell _Wraith Form_ and became undead because it did not return within the spell's duration. It resembles a specter, with a vaguely transparent image of when it was alive. The scores given here are for an average wraith, and can vary considerably depending on its previous knowledge, mental power, sorcerer skill level, etc. 

Attacks using weapons or damaging spells have no effect at all on wraiths, which do not have a physical body, so the only effective countermeasure is magic that has a mental effect.  Although a wraith has lost all of its physical abilities, its knowledge-related abilities and rune master skills are still effective, and it can use magic. However, holy magic cannot be used (dark magic is allowed).  Unlike specters, wraiths do not have the ability to _possess_ .  If its mental points become 0 due to a _Mental Attack_ , etc. the wraith will vanish. If it’s directly exposed to sunlight, it will also disappear without even attempting to resist. 

## **[ Mummy ]** 

## **Servant** 

Monster Level=6 

Rarity=14 Agility=10 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Arms:14 (7) 

Strike Points=8+curse Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=7/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=-/14 (7) Special Abilities=Curse (Resist target score=13) 

Mental attack immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Damage from healing magic Weak to fire 

Habitat=Tombs 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A mummy is a monster transformed by a magical ritual in _ancient_ , and is buried together in a tomb as the keeper 

of its master's coffin. When a miscreant such as a graverobber appears, the mummy is given the mission to awaken and attack the intruder.  If a mummy's attack hits, in addition to physical damage, a _curse_ will befall you. The character must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 13. If they fail, they will no longer be able to recover any reductions in ability scores, including life force and mental power. Let's say an adventurer under this curse is bound with a rope and the game master says, _Well, you have 0 agility and are disabled_ . At this time, even if the adventurer's rope is broken, his agility will _not_ recover from 0 and he will still be unable to take any action! To break this curse, the holy magic _Remove Curse_ is required. 

Also, mental magic doesn't work on a mummy. Since a mummy is dry, it's weak to fire, so fire attacks receive a +10 bonus to strike power. 

## **Master Mummy** 

Monster Level=9 Rarity=15 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Arms:17 (10) Strike Points=16+curse Evasion Points=17 (10) Defense Points=11 Life Points/Resistance=21/18 (11) Mental Points/Resistance=21/18 (11) Special Abilities=7th level ancient magic (Magic intensity/magic power=17/10) 

7th level dark magic (Magic intensity/magic power=17/10) Curse (Resist target score=16) Mummy summon Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Weak to fire 

Habitat=Tombs 

Languages=Low ancient Perception=Pseudo 

A Master Mummy is an ancient member of a royal family or noble who followed a ritual in _ancient_ and sleeps in a tomb as an undead. When a graverobber, etc. places their hands on its 

219

coffin, the master mummy rises and begins to act. 

If a master mummy's attack hits, in addition to physical damage, a _curse_ will befall you. The character must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 16. If they fail, they will not recover any reductions, including life force and mental power. To break this curse, the holy magic _Remove Curse_ is required. 

It is common for 10 or more mummies to be buried together in a master mummy's coffin chamber, furthermore, the master mummy has the ability to either make an individual mummy rise, or summon new mummies from nearby. This _regeneration_ or _summoning_ can only be done once per round. A master mummy can use this ability while taking other actions. 

Since a master mummy is dry, it's weak to fire, so fire attack checks are made at plus 10 to strike power. Any mummies, either buried with or newly summoned, will continue to be active even after the master mummy has fallen, attacking those who have harmed their master to try and get revenge. 

## **[ Vampire ]** 

There are three types of vampires: undead king, vampire, and lesser vampire. All types prolong their eternal life by sucking the lifeblood and mental power of others. A human whose blood is sucked by these vampires will also be turned into a lesser vampire. An undead king is a supreme spirit-user of the ancient kingdom, who has turned itself into an undead being, and holds great magical power. Vampires spontaneously emerge from among the servants of the dark gods. Those who have their blood sucked or their mental power taken by these vampires become lesser vampires. Also, even if their blood is sucked by a lesser vampire, a lesser vampire will still be created. 

Vampires share several common characteristics. First, vampires have pale skin and a red glow in their eyes. These 

red eyes cause intense fear in those who see them. Anyone who makes eye contact with a vampire must first make a mental power resistance roll. The target score varies depending on the type of vampire, but in any case, if you fail to resist, you will be paralyzed with fear and unable to act. Even if the vampire removes its gaze, this paralysis continues until it disappears. 

Vampires cannot be wounded by normal weapons. To defeat them, you will need a silver or magical weapon. Also, if a vampire's attack hits a character, in addition to normal damage, mental power will also be damaged. Armor defense power is useless against this damage. Only adventurer level and magical defense power are effective. Those whose mental power is reduced to 0 by this attack will die and will be resurrected 24 hours later as a lesser vampire. 

Vampires maintain their mental points by sucking human blood. Vampires who temporarily lose their mental points due to magic, etc. cannot recover them unless they suck the blood of another human or steal the mental power of another human. A vampire can suck the lifeblood of one human who cannot resist in 10 minutes, allowing them to fully recover their mental points. Those who've had their blood sucked will lose their mental points and will be resurrected as a lesser vampire in 24 hours. Vampires can also steal mental power even with normal attacks, which are directly added to the vampire's mental points (but never exceed the upper limit). 

If they cannot steal mental power for one full day, they will automatically lose 1 mental point. 

A vampire's negative life force has strong regenerative power, and unless it becomes 0, it will automatically regenerate at a rate of 3 points per round. Vampires hate sunlight. When exposed to sunlight, a vampire suffers 1 point of damage to both their life points 

and mental points each round. Life points do not regenerate under the sun. 

## **Lesser Vampire** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=13 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=Several to dozens 

Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Barehanded:10 (3) 

Strike Points=5+mental damage Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) 

Special Abilities=Steal mental power (Strike power 10, bonus damage 3) 

Gaze (Resist target score=10, paralysis by fear) 

Life point regenerate (3 points per round) 

Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Habitat=Various Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

A lesser vampire is a monster created by the transformation of a victim whose blood has been sucked by another vampire. They will always follow the commands of the vampire that transformed them (their parents, so to speak). They have emaciated, unhealthy pale skin, and their glowing red eyes cause intense fear in those who see them. A character who makes eye contact with a lesser vampire must first resist the gaze against target score 10. If you fail, you’ll be paralyzed by fear and unable to act. 

A lesser vampire cannot be wounded by normal weapons. You will need a silver or magic weapon to defeat them. In addition to normal damage, a character hit by a lesser vampire's attack will also suffer damage to their mental power 

## **Vampire** 

Monster Level=10 Rarity=13 Agility=20 Movement Speed=20/20 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Very rare 

220

## Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial 

Attack Points=Barehanded:17 (10) Strike Points=14+mental damage 

Evasion Points=19 (12) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=26/20 (13) Mental Points/Resistance=26/20 (13) 

Special Abilities=8th level dark magic (Magic intensity/magic power=18/11) Steal mental power (Strike power 10, bonus damage 10) 

Gaze (Resist target score=17, paralysis by fear) 

Retains previous skills Life point regenerate (3 points per round) 

Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Damage from healing magic Habitat=Places with _unholy soil_ Languages=Those previous Perception=Pseudo 

Vampires are servants of the dark gods or those who seem to be particularly favored by the dark gods, and are resurrected as undead after death. Most abilities they had previously are retained. Additionally, they gain the power to use dark magic up to 8th level. They’ll no longer be able to use holy magic, but if they had a holy magic skill of 9th level or greater, they'll be able to use dark magic at the same skill level. The scores given here are for an average vampire and will vary depending on the ability scores it had previously. If you take that into account, its dexterity, agility, intelligence, and strength will be _previous +6_ , and its life force and mental power will be _previous +12_ . Vampires have the ability to move while floating in the air. 

Apart from the difference in scores and magical power already shown, a vampire's abilities, weaknesses and ecology are similar to those of a lesser vampire. 

A vampire's negative power is strongly connected to the soil called _unholy soil_ . If the vampire's life points become 0, or if its body crumbles away as a result of a "Turn Undead" spell being cast on it, the vampire's form will vanish into mist, but in one day it’ll completely 

regenerate in its _soil_ location. Vampires can also turn into mist at their own will before their life points reach 0, and regenerate in a place with _soil_ . Even if their movement is blocked by magic such as _Paralyze_ , etc. they can still turn into a mist. 

If discovered by an adventurer, etc. while regenerating in a location with _soil_ , a vampire will not be able to take its physical form. It'll remain a mist. 

While a vampire is a mist, it cannot be wounded by sunlight or any other attack. The mist will eventually fade and the characters will no longer be able to see it. 

Many vampires preserve this "soil" by preparing a coffin and lining it inside, while others simply keep it in a mound inside their room. A sage who has knowledge of vampires can look at the _soil_ and completely find out its true identity through their _knowledge_ ability. To do so, you must know about vampires and must also make a success roll against target score 16. You cannot attempt this success roll if you do not know about vampires. 

If someone with the shaman skill looks at the _soil_ , they can immediately tell that it's something out of the ordinary. If you’re accompanied by a sage who knows about vampires, and further find out that the _soil_ is not normal soil, you’ll be able to deduce its true identity. 

You can defeat a vampire by reducing its mental points to 0, or by removing the _soil_ from its original location and reducing its life points to 0. However, cautious vampires usually keep _soil_ in several locations. 

## **Undead King** 

Monster Level=15 Rarity=13 Agility=20 Movement Speed=20/20 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Very high Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Barehanded:22 (15) Strike Points=19+mental damage Evasion Points=24 (17) Defense Points=17 Life Points/Resistance=26/25 (18) 

## Mental Points/Resistance=32/26 (19) 

Special Abilities=10th level ancient magic (Magic intensity/magic power=22/15) 

10th level dark magic (Magic intensity/magic power=22/15) 

Steal mental power (Strike power 10, bonus damage 15) 

Gaze (Resist target score=22, paralysis by fear) 

Life point regenerate (3 points per round) 

Normal weapon immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Damage from healing magic Habitat=Places with _unholy soil_ Languages=Low ancient Perception=Pseudo 

The _Undead King_ , is the name of the ultimate undead, the king of all without life, a powerful necromancer from the ancient kingdom that gained eternal negative power through a lost spell. They are usually dressed in black robes and a hood. The scores given here are for an average undead king, and will vary depending on the abilities they had previously. If you take that into account, its dexterity and agility will be _previous +6_ , its strength, intelligence, and life will be _previous +12_ , and its mental power will be _previous +18_ .  That said, there aren't exactly enough undead kings in Forcelia to go taking averages... 

Above all, the most frightening thing about the undead king is that it has great magical power. An undead king uses both ancient magic and dark magic up to at least 10th level. 

Other characteristics are similar to those of a vampire. The same goes for the presence of _soil_ . 

221