# 13.2.10 Magical Creatures

## **13.2.10** 

## **Magical Creatures** 

## **[ Simulacra ]** 

Monster Level=Based on original Rarity=14 Agility=Based on original Movement Speed=Based on original Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Violent Attack Points/Strike Points/Evasion Points/ Defense Points=Based on original Life Points/Resistance=Based on original/based on original Mental Points/Resistance=-/Based on original Special Abilities=Duplication Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A simulacra is a kind of golem built during the ancient kingdom period. A simulacra duplicates the appearance and abilities of an enemy human creature and makes them its own. 

They were often used to watch over people who did not use magic, such as slaves and savages, and to guard the places where they worked. A simulacra duplicates the belongings, weapons, armor, etc. of people it sees and attacks them. However, magical weapons and armor cannot be duplicated. Although they look the same, they don't even have magical power. If it duplicates someone who is holding a broadsword +1, it will attack with a broadsword with the same strike power, but will _not_ receive any bonuses to attack power or bonus damage. 

A simulacra's replication is only superficial, and is limited to weapon combat capability. It cannot duplicate someone's personality or even their memories. As far as is currently known, simulacra seem to be unable to speak or use any magic at all. 

The only way to attack a simulacra is to attack directly with a weapon. Although it’s a formidable enemy for a 10th level fighter, it’s not a formidable 

opponent for a 1st level sorcerer (without the fighter, thief, or ranger skill). 

## **[ Homunculus ]** 

Among the pseudo-life forms created by ancient magic, the homunculus is the closest to human. Although they’re about one-tenth the size of a human, they have human-like intelligence and can speak. 

Production of a homunculus is not always successful. In addition, creating a homunculus with new characteristics will inevitably be a process of trial and error. The same held true for the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom period, who produced countless failures. The monsters called blobs are these failures, which were carelessly dumped into sewers and rivers, which turned feral and have survived to the present day. 

## **Homunculus** 

## Monster Level=1 

Rarity=14 

Agility=14 Movement Speed=4/7 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Barehanded:8 (1) Strike Points=1 

Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=3 Life Points/Resistance=6/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=14/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Depends on the caster Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses 

Homunculus are often created as distractions or scouts for rune masters. Most resemble humans, but some are ugly, resembling gargoyles, and some have wings and can fly. 

Unlike golems, etc. homunculus have their own will, and in some cases they may rebel against their creators. Their life span is only a few years. 

## **Blob** 

Monster Level=8 Rarity=15 Agility=8 Movement Speed=8 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Ram:10 (3) 

## Strike Points=3 

Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=16/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) Special Abilities=All weapons cannot critical Iron corrosion 

Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Decaying swamps, sewers Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Sorcerers in the ancient kingdom often experimented with creating life, but would carelessly throw their failed creations into the sewers or rivers. The blob is said to be the result of such failed artificial life turning feral. It's a black, slimy, amorphous creature with no intellect, which attacks all living things. 

A blob has a liquid inside it that corrodes iron. If you attack a blob with an iron weapon or if a blob’s attack hits someone wearing iron armor, that equipment will corrode and become useless after 24 hours. However, magical weapons and armor, silver and mithril silver weapons and armor are not affected. 

Also, attacks with _any_ weapon _cannot_ critical against the blob. 

## **[ Puppet Golem ]** 

A puppet golem is a small, simple version of a golem that is created by giving temporary life to a tree branch, stone, etc. using an ancient magic spell. Depending on the material, there are four different types of puppet golems that can be created. They are oak, stone servant, bone servant, and skeleton warrior. 

## **Oak** 

Monster Level=2 Rarity=13 (However, a sorcerer always knows) Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:10 (3) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=12/10 (3) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) 

222

Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Various 

warrior. They are superior to stone servants, etc. in that they have eternal life and can carry out fairly complex commands. 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

Bladed weapons _cannot_ critical against a bone servant. 

An oak is a puppet golem the size of a human child, made from oak wood. They have no talents other than fighting. 

## **Skeleton Warrior** 

Monster Level=5 

## **Stone Servant** 

Rarity=14 (However, a sorcerer always knows) Agility=18 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Weapon:12 (5) Strike Points=11 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=-/13 (6) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Bladed weapons cannot critical Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Uncertain 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=15 (However, a sorcerer always knows) Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:11 (4) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness 

Habitat=Various 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A skeleton warrior is a golem created from a magical dragon's tooth. Its appearance is that of a fully-armed skeleton, which uses its weapon and shield with mechanical precision. However, its intellect is low and it cannot accept complex or abstract commands. For this reason, skeleton warriors are often used for simple tasks, such as guarding treasure vaults, etc. 

A stone servant is a puppet golem about 1.5 meters tall, made from stone. They can perform simple tasks as well as fight. 

## **Bone Servant** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=15 Agility=12 Movement Speed=18 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:11 (4) Strike Points=8 Weapon:11 (4) Strike Points=9 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) 

Intellect=Obeys commands A skeleton warrior will attempt to Reaction=Command-based carry out any commands they're given, Attack Points=Arms:11 (4) unless the caster who created them gives Strike Points=8 them new commands in high ancient, or Weapon:11 (4) Strike Points=9 cancels any previously given commands. Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=5 It's usually not possible to control, or Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) cancel the commands of, a skeleton Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) warrior created by someone else. Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity 

Also, once created, a skeleton warrior will never return to its original tooth form. 

Bladed weapons cannot critical Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Various 

Even if you attack a skeleton warrior with a bladed weapon, it will not cause a critical hit. 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A bone servant is a puppet golem made from the bones of living creatures. Usually they're humanoids, but other ones exist too. When armed, they're difficult to distinguish from a skeleton 

## **[ Imitator ]** 

An imitator is a clay-like artificial lifeform created by the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom, made in the shape of doors and treasure chests, and placed throughout castles and labyrinths to guard treasures and important people. Normally, they’re in a state of suspended animation and do not move at all, and they look like stone or metal, but as soon as they are touched by a living creature, they activate immediately and attack. Since they can live for thousands of years in a state of suspended animation, many imitators are even now still awaiting intruders in old labyrinths. 

An Imitator will not stop attacking until the intruders are repelled or wiped out, but since they're ordered to remain in a specific location, they will not pursue any enemies that run away. 

Once combat is over, an imitator dissolves the bodies of the victims it killed in acid, completely absorbing them. The time required for absorption is several hours for a small imitator, but only a few dozen seconds for a large one. An imitator can also absorb iron, but cannot dissolve gold, silver, or jewelry, so it spits those out. Therefore, there will often be treasures that belonged to the victims scattered around the imitator. When it finishes absorbing, the imitator will return to its original state of suspended animation. 

Imitators have no intelligence. The only words an imitator can understand are the keywords given to it by the sorcerer at the time it was created. If you say the keyword, the imitator will not attack. Even in the middle of combat, hearing the keyword will instantly return it to suspended animation. 

Imitators come in a variety of shapes and sizes, but the three most common ones are chest imitators, door imitators, and floor imitators. There are also monsters called things, which are imitators that escaped after being created, and turned feral. 

Imitators and things will disguise themselves as other objects, then 

223

perform a _surprise attack_ . To avoid being surprised, a character must make a success roll against target score 16 using _ranger skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score. 

If you’re caught by surprise, the imitator or thing will be given the first attack. At this time, a -4 penalty will be imposed on the character's evasion speed. Normal combat is possible from the 2nd round onwards. 

## **Chest Imitator** 

Monster Level=2 

Rarity=13 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Moderate Intellect= Almost none Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Arms:10 (3) Strike Points=4 

Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=8/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=-/10 (3) Special Abilities=Camouflage (Sense target score=16) 

Mental attack immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=None Perception=Magic 

This is an imitator in the shape of a treasure chest. As soon as a thief touches it to examine it, it'll attack. Chest imitators can actually be used as treasure chests, so you may find treasure inside after defeating them. 

## **Door Imitator** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=13 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Barehanded:10 (3) Strike Points=5 

Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) Special Abilities=Camouflage (Sense target score=16) 

Arm grab Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=None Perception=Magic 

This is an imitator in the shape of a door. As soon as you touch the knob, it’ll attack.  Anyone hit by a door imitator's attack on the first round will have one arm grabbed and will suffer a -4 penalty to evasion on subsequent rounds.  You can only use your other arm in combat, and your movement is restricted, so you cannot use ancient magic. The method of shaking your arm free is the same as strangling (see p. 236), but you will not suffer any damage from being grabbed, and you’ll still be able to make sound. 

## **Floor Imitator** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=13 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Almost none Reaction=Violent Attack Points=Arms:13 (6) Strike Points=13 Strike Points=11 (4) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=24/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=-/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=Camouflage (Sense target score=16) 

Strangling Mental attack immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=None Perception=Magic 

This is the most dangerous type of imitator. The entire floor of one room is an imitator which attacks anyone who enters the room. Anyone standing on a floor imitator that's begun to move must suffer a -2 penalty to attack and evasion due to unstable footing. A floor imitator can attack anyone  standing on top of it. Anyone hit by a floor imitator's attack will be enwrapped in its amorphous body and strangled (see p. 236). 

## **Thing** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=16 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral to adversarial Attack Points=Tentacles:10 (3) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 

Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) 

Mental Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Special Abilities=Camouflage (Sense target score=16) 

Tentacle Attack 1D times Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=Regional Perception=Magic 

Like an imitator, a thing is an amorphous creature, and according to one theory it's said to be an imitator that's turned feral. The difference is that they have intellect and can transform into any creature so long as it's close to human size. Although it is nearly impossible to see through its clever transformation, in contrast to an imitator, it's not very good at transforming into inanimate objects. 

Things often eat humans. They approach their prey in the form of a human or elf, catch their opponent off guard, then aim to attack when they're alone. They target humans because they’re easier to deceive than animals. Animals have a keen sense of smell, so no matter how closely a thing resembles the real deal, they’ll be able to tell by the difference in smell. 

During combat, a thing can attack up to 6 times by transforming its body so as to produce numerous arms and tentacles. The game master must roll the dice to randomly determine how many attacks are made in a round. 

## **[ Obsidian Dog ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=15 Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:10 (3) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Fire immunity Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=None Perception=Magic 

224

This is a type of golem created through ancient magic. It looks like a dog made of obsidian. It’s normally a harmless dog statue, but when its silver collar is removed, it becomes hostile towards all living things and attacks. The inhabitants of the ancient kingdom used them as a spectacle to fight off savages. Occasionally an obsidian dog can be found still wearing its silver collar. 

## **[ Gargoyle ]** 

## Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 Agility=12 Movement Speed=10/15 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Neutral Attack Points=Fangs:10 (3)/Claws:11 (4) Strike Points=10/9 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=10/10 (3) Special Abilities=Not affected by poison and illness 

Sleepless 

## Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Magic 

A gargoyle is a species of golem, a statue brought to life through magic, but its flexible movements resemble those of a normal living creature. Its appearance resembles a stone statue, and if you close your eyes, you won't be able to tell it apart unless you look very closely. These monsters still exist in the ruins of the ancient kingdom without ceasing activity, but the means to control them and the technology to create them have already been lost. 

A gargoyle has wings on its back and can fly. It also has a tail. Its grotesque appearance is said to be because it was modeled after the lesser daemon zalbard (described later). The size of a gargoyle is nearly 2 meters when standing upright. Unlike golems, etc. they act according to their own judgment without receiving commands.  In other words, they may run away if they think they're at a disadvantage, or they may take advantageous tactics depending on the situation. Their personality is very 

insidious, and they’re willing to resort to dirty measures. 

## **[ Sí ]** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=14 Agility=17 Movement Speed=17 Number=One to several Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:11 (4) Strike Points=4 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=4/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Special Abilities=3rd level ancient magic (Magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Habitat=Ruins Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses 

The sí is said to be an artificial lifeform created by the wizards of the ancient kingdom. They mainly live in ancient ruins and have their own villages and small homes. They are highly intelligent and can handle magic. Their physique and appearance is similar to that of a grassrunner, but they have long, gangly limbs and unusually thin fingers. 

They do not willingly go outside their home (ruins). A sí's weapon is a thin sword that resembles a needle. They also use ancient magic. This often includes lost spells among them. 

## **[ Stalker ]** 

Stalkers are beings created through ancient magic rituals, using gas and many human souls. As their name suggests, they’re meant to assassinate others. Stalkers are usually ghostly beings, who can move without being blocked by physical obstacles. Thus they can freely pass through small gaps in doors or holes in walls. However, since they cannot use magic, etc. if they attempt to carry out their original purpose, which is to kill, they must materialize _before_ they attack. A materialized stalker can be wounded by damage magic, silver, and magical weapons, but cannot be wounded by normal weapons.  When either its life or mental points reach 0, a stalker's spiritual 

bond will break and it'll disappear. Physical attacks are completely ineffective against a stalker in ghostly form. 

In present day Forcelia, the technique used to create stalkers has been lost. Therefore, all stalkers adventurers will meet are survivors from the ancient kingdom. 

Stalkers naturally follow the commands of their casters, but now that all the casters are dead, they remember the last command they were given and faithfully try to carry it out. Stalkers that were created but abandoned without being given any commands will act according to their violent tendencies, indiscriminately attacking anyone they come across. 

Failures were also an inevitable part of stalker production. However, these failed creations became gaseous creatures called gizmos, which continue to live in present day Forcelia. 

## **Gizmo** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=15 Agility=10 Movement Speed=13 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=None Reaction=Violent Attack Points=- Strike Points=Evasion Points=10 (3) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=-/11 (4) 

Special Abilities=Noxious gas (Toxicity score 10, strike power 10, bonus damage 3) 

Mental attack immunity Weapon immunity Certain magic immunity Weak to fire 

Habitat=Stagnant swamps Languages=None Perception=Magic 

Gizmos are amorphous black gasses around 2 meters in diameter, which were failed attempts at stalkers. They live by inhaling the stench of decay emitted by dead animals. If there are no animal carcasses nearby, they will also try to kill living creatures and turn them into corpses. 

Even if a gizmo's attack hits, it does not deal damage by itself. However, the 

225