## 13.2.10 Magical Creatures

body of a gizmo is poisonous gas, so those hit by it will inhale it and suffer damage resulting from a strike power 10 strike roll plus 3 points of bonus damage. However, if their resistance roll is successful, the strike power becomes 0. Armor cannot protect against gas, only adventurer level or magical protection can reduce the damage. 

A gizmo cannot be attacked by weapons at all. Since they have no mind, _Sleep Cloud_ and other types of magic that affect the mind are ineffective _Cold-type_ , _wind cutter-type_ , _stone-type_ , and _poison gas-type_ damage magic is also ineffective. Only _fire-type_ , _electric-type_ , _pure energytype_ , and _explosion-type_ magic attacks can deal damage. A gizmo's gas is highly flammable, so fire-type magic is particularly effective, and will add +10 to normal strike power during a check. Also, if you cast a _Fire Weapon_ spell on your weapon and attack, it’ll deal strike power 20 damage if it hits. 

## **Gas Stalker** 

Monster Level=4 

Rarity=14 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One, rarely multiple Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Claws:12 (5) Strike Points=9 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) 

Mental Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity 

Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Physical attack immunity while in 

ghostly form 

Habitat=Ruins 

## Languages=None 

Perception=Pseudo, Magic while in ghostly form 

A gas stalker is a Stalker created using a heavy, foul-smelling gas. Although it's usually invisible and doesn't make a sound, you can tell when it’s approaching because the gas that makes up its body gives off a terrible odor. When it materializes, it appears as a naked devil with green skin and crazy bloodshot eyes. 

## **Shadow Stalker** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=14 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One, rarely multiple Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Garrote:10 (3) 

Strike Points=Special Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=Choke (Strike power 10, bonus damage 5) 

Surprise attack (Sense target score=16) Normal attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless Physical attack immunity while in ghostly form Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None 

Perception=Pseudo, Magic while in ghostly form 

A shadow stalker is a stalker made using an extremely heavy black gas. Even when it's not materialized, the color of the black gas is clearly visible in a well-lit area, but when it's lost in darkness, it's barely recognizable. It also excels at moving around while pretending to be its opponent's shadow. A shadow stalker will materialize behind its opponent, holding a garrote in its hand. It'll then try to strangle the opponent to death with that garrote. 

Those with the ranger skill can detect this attack using their _sense danger_ ability if they succeed on a success roll against target score 16 using _ranger skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score.  If you can detect it, you can evade and attack as normal, but if you cannot, it will be a complete _surprise attack_ , so you will _not_ be able to attack, and will _be_ attacked with no chance to respond. At this time, you’ll suffer a -4 penalty to evasion. 

Once a shadow stalker's attack hits, treat it as if the character is being strangled. The damage is strike power 10, plus 5 points of bonus damage. If an adventurer is wearing metal armor other than ring mail, they will not suffer any 

damage. Regardless of damage or armor, once _character's life force_ rounds have passed, the character will suffocate and fall unconscious (life force 0). Every round from then on, you’ll need to make a _death check_ when applying damage (even if it’s 0). For information on escaping, see _grappling_ (see p. 265). 

## **Air Stalker** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=15 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One, rarely multiple Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:13 (6) Strike Points=12 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=20/15 (8) Special Abilities=Normal attack immunity 

Completely transparent Not affected by poison and illness Sleepless 

Physical attack immunity while in ghostly form Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo, Magic while in ghostly form 

An air stalker is a stalker created from transparent gas. Therefore, even when it materializes, it is completely invisible. For this reason, attacks on an air stalker and evasion against an air stalker's attacks are always -4. 

Of course, it's not certain what form an air stalker will materialize in....... 

## **[ Mutant Monster ]** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=18 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Arms:13 (6) Strike Points=11 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=18/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=18/13 (6) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Various Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

226

This is a human who has mutated and gone berserk due to a special poison called _Living Doll_ (see Poison List, p. 161). They vary in appearance; some have four arms, some have a tail instead of legs, some have small wings, and some have scales all over their bodies. 

Transformation from human to monster takes one round, during which they cannot attack, but they can still evade. Evasion points, defense points, and life points in the round during transformation use the _monster's_ scores. 

Even if struck by the poison, it does not _completely_ turn them into a monster, and some memories of being human may remain. If you call out to them with all your heart, they may respond. If you cast the holy magic _Cure Poison_ on them, you can return them to their human form. 

In addition to _Living Doll_ , it’s said that there are several other poisons that can create mutant monsters. According to one theory, magical beasts such as scylla, etc. were born from such poison. 

## **[ Golem ]** 

Golems are statues created by enchanters during the ancient kingdom period, and given pseudo-life. All they can do is blindly follow the commands of their sorcerer master. In the present day, the method of creating golems has been lost, and there are no sorcerers who can create golems. 

Since golems have eternal life, some of them are still left in ruins, etc. Some of them were left as they were created, without any commands given. Such golems can be given commands using the ancient magic _Command Golem_ . 

A variety of materials were used to create golems. Typically, animal (or human) flesh, stone, wood, steel, and ceramics were commonly used. However, some were made of very unusual material, such as crystal, ruby, diamond, and mithril silver, as if to show off their skills. 

Golems are generally humanoid, but there are many exceptions to this, and 

some come in special shapes that resemble animals, magical beasts, or mythical beasts such as dragons, etc. 

Here, we will introduce data for three types of golems: the most frequently produced _Flesh Golem_ and _Iron Golem_ , and the extremely rare _Mithril Golem_ which is considered the strongest. This data has been created with the assumption that their shape is humanoid. 

## **Flesh Golem** 

Monster Level=7 

Rarity=12 Agility=12 Movement Speed=13 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys Commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:15 (8) Strike Points=16 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=30/18 (11) Mental Points/Resistance=-/15 (8) Special Abilities=Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

A flesh golem is a golem made from dead flesh. Usually animal products were used, but perhaps because it was the ancient kingdom period, examples made from the bodies of slaves are also frequently seen. Golems are generally slow-moving creatures, but these have relatively flexible and agile bodies among them. 

## **Iron Golem** 

Monster Level=9 

Rarity=12 Agility=6 Movement Speed=8 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:17 (10) Strike Points=19 

Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=14 Life Points/Resistance=50/23 (16) Mental Points/Resistance=-/17 (10) Special Abilities=Weapons cannot critical Certain magic resistant Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness Habitat=Ruins Languages=None 

## Perception=Pseudo 

An iron golem is a golem made of iron, and is the slowest of all golems. However, in terms of hardness of body and size of life force, they’re also terrifying beings that rival lesser dragons and titans. 

Against an iron golem, weapons cannot deal additional critical damage. Also, damage spells such as _cold-type_ , _electric-type_ , _stone-type_ , _poison gas-type_ , and _wind cutter-type_ are completely useless. _Fire-type_ damage magic is effective, but a critical cannot occur. _Earthquake-type_ , _explosion-type_ , and _pure energy-type_ damage magic is effective, and a critical _can_ occur. 

## **Mithril Golem** 

Monster Level=13 Rarity=16 Agility=12 Movement Speed=15 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Obeys commands Reaction=Command-based Attack Points=Arms:21 (14) Strike Points=25 

Evasion Points=19 (12) Defense Points=19 Life Points/Resistance=75/31 (24) 

Mental Points/Resistance=-/21 (14) Special Abilities=Weapons cannot critical 

Certain magic resistant Mental attack immunity Not affected by poison and illness 

Habitat=Ruins 

Languages=None Perception=Pseudo 

Mithril Golems are extremely rare, and only one has been confirmed to exist to date. Since they’re formed from mithril silver, which is hard but lightweight, they can make relatively agile movements, and they also have exceptionally hard bodies and large amounts of life force. 

Against a mithril golem, weapons cannot deal additional critical damage. Also, damage spells such as _cold-type_ , _electric-type_ , _stone-type_ , _poison gas-type_ , and _wind cutter-type_ are completely useless. _Fire-type_ damage magic is effective, but a critical cannot occur. _Earthquake-type_ , _explosion-type_ , and 

227