# 13.2.11 Daemons/Underworld Creatures

_pure energy-type_ damage magic is effective, and a critical _can_ occur. 

## **13.2.11** 

## **Daemons/Underworld Creatures** 

## **[ Aetherbeast ]** 

## Monster Level=4 

Rarity=15 Agility=16 Movement Speed=21 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs: 11 (4) Strike Points=10 

Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) Mental Points/Resistance=16/12 (5) Special Abilities=Depends on appendages Habitat=Underground labyrinths, ruins Languages=None Perception=Five senses (illumination due to appendages) 

These are beasts of the daemon world, said to be creatures created by daemons. They often work as servants of daemons. They're rarely encountered in the material world, and details of them are not well understood. The few eyewitness accounts are mixed, and its shape is not clear, but it’s agreed that it looks like a combination of several animals from the material world. 

Although this data is general, there are many different types of aetherbeasts. If the game master wishes, they may create special aetherbeasts. 

## **[ Hellhound ]** 

## Monster Level=5 

Rarity=14 Agility=15 Movement Speed=18 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=12/13 (6) 

Special Abilities=Fire breath in a 5 meter forward radius (Resist target score=12, strike power 10, bonus damage 5) 

Fire immunity Habitat=Deep caves, underground labyrinths Languages=None 

## Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

At first glance, the hellhound looks like a large black dog. However, in reality, it’s a terrifying beast from the underworld, also known as the watchdog of Hell. Hellhounds have a 1 in 6 chance (if you roll 1 on 1D) of breathing fire from their mouths. Everyone within a 5 meter radius semicircle in front of the hellhound will suffer damage equal to a strike power 10 strike roll plus 5 points of bonus damage. Armor cannot protect against this fire; only adventurer level and magical defense can reduce the damage. 

## **[ Cerberus ]** 

## Monster Level=9 

Rarity=13 Agility=15 Movement Speed=18 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Animal Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs (3 times): 15 (8) Strike Points=17x3 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=22/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=15/16 (9) Special Abilities=Fire breath in a 5 meter surrounding radius (Resist target score=15, strike power 20, bonus damage 8) 

Fire immunity Habitat=Deep within underground labyrinths Languages=None Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

A cerberus is a large black dog with three heads, and is thought to be a variant of the hellhound. It's slightly larger than a hellhound, about as big as a medium-sized horse. When attacking, it uses all three of its heads to bite the same target at the same time. 

Like a hellhound, a cerberus can also breathe fire. If a 1 is rolled on 1D, all three heads will breathe fire at the same time in three different directions. Everyone in a 5 meter radius surrounding the cerberus will suffer damage equal to a strike power 20 strike roll plus bonus damage 8. Armor cannot protect against this fire; only adventurer level and magical defense can reduce the damage. 

Fire attacks have no effect on a cerberus. 

## **[ Lesser Daemon ] Grunel** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=13 Agility=14 Movement Speed=15 Number=One to several Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human 

Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Weapon: 12 (5)/Tail: 12 (5) Strike Points=13/13 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=22/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Special Abilities=5th level ancient magic (magic intensity/magic power=14/7) 3rd level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Strangling 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient 

## Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

A grunel is a humanoid lesser daemon with steel-blue skin. It's characterized by its long tail, which it can manipulate freely like a whip to attack or entangle enemies. If it uses its tail to entangle, treat this as a strangling attack (see p. 236). The target will be unable to move, and the grunel can attack with the weapon in its right hand. They have the ability to use ancient magic. They seem to have been especially proficient at enchanting, and often carry a magical sword. If a grunel has a magic sword, add a bonus of 1 point to both its attack points and strike points. They can also use dark magic. 

## **Zalbard** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=13 Agility=14 Movement Speed=15/17 (air) Number=One to several Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Claws: 13 (6) Strike Points=14 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=25/15 (8) 

228

## Mental Points/Resistance=18/14 (7) 

Special Abilities=3rd level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) 

Breathe enough fire to engulf one person (Resist target score=12, strike power 10, bonus damage 5) 

Fire immunity 

## Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

## Languages=Low ancient 

## Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

The zalbard is a lesser daemon that's said to be the model for the gargoyle. Its appearance is almost identical to that of a gargoyle, but its skin is fiery red. Its eyes are also bright red, and glow suspiciously. A zalbard's method of attack is the sharp claws on its hands, and it also has the power to breathe magical fire from its mouth. The fire breathed by a zalbard extends in a straight line, making one target within 5 meters its victim. Those attacked by the fire will suffer damage equal to a strike power 10 strike roll plus 5 points of bonus damage. If you succeed on a resistance roll, strike power becomes 0. In addition, fire and heat attacks cannot wound a zalbard. They have the ability to use dark magic. 

## **Doubleburg** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=14 Agility=15 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to several Frequency=Very rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Claws:13 (6) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=20/14 (7) Mental Points/Resistance=18/14 (7) Special Abilities=Shapeshift Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient, languages of the person it shapeshifts into Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

A doubleburg is almost the same size as a human, and its entire body is pitch black. It has a bright red open mouth straight across its face, but no other features. This daemon has the ability to completely copy any opponent’s 

## Intellect=Human 

appearance after just one look, including their clothes. If it spends one minute to observe them, it can imitate their tone of speech and gestures exactly. Therefore, it's not possible to discern whether it's the real thing by appearance alone. To shapeshift or shapeshift back requires one full round. 

Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Fangs: 13 (6)/Claws: 14 (7) Strike Points=17+Poison/16 

Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=30/17 (10) Mental Points/Resistance=20/15 (8) Special Abilities=3rd level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) 

However, it cannot copy its opponent's abilities and memories. Even if it shapeshifts, a doubleburg's score data will not change at all. For example, even though it looks like it's wielding a weapon, it's actually a part of the doubleburg's own body that's been shapeshifted. 

Poison (toxicity score 13, strike power 20, bonus damage 6) 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

## Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

A ragnakang is a lesser daemon that looks like an upright dragon. It has wings reminiscent of a giant bat, can reach over 3 meters in height with its neck extended, and uses its long neck to attack by biting. It also uses its strong tail as a weapon. They perform these two attacks at the same time every round. Its sharp fangs contain a powerful poison, and those 

## **Ragnakang** 

Monster Level=6 Rarity=13 Agility=10 Movement Speed=12/20 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very rare 

**==> picture [351 x 400] intentionally omitted <==**

229