# 13.2.12 Humans

who fail to resist will immediately suffer damage equal to a strike power 20 strike roll plus 6 points of bonus damage. 

## **Maligdorai** 

## Monster Level=7 

Rarity=15 Agility=14 Movement Speed=15/20 (air) Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial, or command-based Attack Points=Needle x 2: 14 (7) Strike Points=16x2 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=20/16 (9) Mental Points/Resistance=25/17 (10) Special Abilities=Illusion (Resist target score=17, mental damage=strike power 10, bonus damage 7) 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

The Maligdorai is a daemon whose upper body resembles an owl and lower body the hind legs of a goat, and its entire body is covered in feathers. As well as wings on its back, it has jointless tentacle-like viscera sprouting from the base of each wing. Its arms come to sharp gimlet-shaped points, and it performs physical attacks by stabbing with them. 

A maligdorai’s most frightening ability is _illusion_ . The maligdorai can show illusions to surrounding creatures, dealing damage to their minds (these illusions have no effect on monsters that don't have mental points). When a maligdorai uses this illusion ability, those being targeted must make a mental power resistance roll against target score 17 at the beginning of the round. If the target succeeds, they will escape the effect and can act freely, but if the target fails to resist, they will see an illusion of what they fear as an enemy deep within their heart attacking them, and as a result will suffer _strike power 10 + bonus damage 7_ damage to their mental power. They will also be unable to take any actions. 

Those who lose all their mental power due to an illusory attack will from then on be turned into a being that can 

be freely manipulated by the maligdorai. To recover from this, you must defeat their master, the maligdorai. Those being manipulated cannot recover their mental power through sleep or through magic such as _Transfer Mental Power_ . Also, spells that affect the mind have no effect on those in this state. 

A maligdorai can also show illusions to multiple creatures within its vision at the same time, but it must focus in order to perform the illusions. If its focus is interrupted or it’s unable to focus due to making physical attacks, suffering damage, etc., then it cannot maintain its illusions. Illusions cannot be used in the round immediately after suffering damage. 

Conversely, while the maligdorai is performing an illusion, the target must make a resistance roll against the illusion each round. 

## **[ Greater Daemons ] Doppelganger** 

Monster Level=10 

Rarity=16 Agility=14 Movement Speed=18 Number=One Frequency=Very rare Intellect=High Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Claws: 18 (11) 

Strike Points=20 

Evasion Points=16 (9) Defense Points=14 Life Points/Resistance=34/21 (14) Mental Points/Resistance=28/20 (13) Special Abilities=7th level ancient magic (magic intensity/magic power=16/9) Shapeshift 

Habitat=Underground labyrinths, secluded ruins 

Languages=Low ancient, languages of the person it shapeshifts into Perception=Five senses (Darkvision) 

The doppleganger, which is in the same family as the doubleburg, albeit a greater species, has the appearance of a 3 meter tall giant with an entirely black body. Its has a bright red straight open mouth, but no other features besides that. A doppelganger can copy the appearance, abilities, memories, etc. of an opponent by observing them. At a glance, all they can capture is their appearance (including their belongings). If they 

observe them for one minute, they can imitate their tone of speech and gestures exactly. Then, if they observe them for over one hour, they will be able to completely copy their abilities and memories. To shapeshift or shapeshift back requires one full round. 

A doppelganger who has copied the abilities and memories of an opponent can use _all_ of their abilities. If they transform into a dragon, they can breathe fire, and if they transform into a 10th level fighter, they can fight with their attack power, strike power, and bonus damage. However, they cannot use holy magic or dragon roar magic (they _can_ use other magic). In addition, a doppelganger can use its own ability, ancient magic. 

If combat occurs without them shapeshifting, a doppelganger will fight primarily using ancient magic. 

## **13.2.12** 

## **Humans** 

## **[ Normal Man ]** 

Monster Level=0 

Rarity=- (Everyone knows them) Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=One to hundreds Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Farming Tools:7 (0) Strike Points=3 

Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=2 Life Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Ordinary people such as villagers will not become enemies of adventurers. The data here is for when villagers, etc. with no fighting ability are drawn into combat. 

230

## **[ Bandit ]** 

Bandits are those who build strongholds in the fields and hills, and make the surrounding area their territory, where they steal from passersby (mainly merchants). 

## **Henchman** 

Monster Level=1 Rarity=5 Agility=10 Movement Speed=10 Number=Several to dozens Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=8 (1) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Mental Points/Resistance=10/8 (1) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Bandit henchmen should generally be at about this level. 

## **Leader** 

Monster Level=2 Rarity=5 Agility=11 Movement Speed=11 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon: 9 (2) Strike Points=6 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=11/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=11/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Leader-class bandits that control several henchmen. 

## **Chief** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=5 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=7 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 

Life Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=12/11 (4) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Human villages, fields and hills near roads 

Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This data is for a chief class, who leads about 20 followers. If the bandits are large enough in scale, there will be more than one chief class with equal power. Please consider the standard ratio of _henchmen_ : _leaders_ : _chiefs_ to be 16 : 4 : 1. If the scale reaches 80 people or more, there will be an even stronger boss. This boss's scores should equal _the total scores of a chief +1_ . In this case, the ratio of _henchmen_ : _leaders_ : _chiefs_ : _bosses_ should be 64 : 16 : 4 : 1. Every time the scale of the bandits grows 4 times larger, there will be someone stronger to command them (add +1 to each score). For a group of bandits with 300 to 400 members, the leader's monster level should be 5, for more than 1000, it should be 6, for more than 5000, it should be 7......etc. 

## **[ Soldier ]** 

The soldiers listed here are those who are responsible for maintaining public order in the city and protecting the royal castle. Therefore, you normally won’t fight them. 

## **Normal Soldier** 

Monster Level=1 Rarity=5 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to dozens Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=5 Life Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=2/9 (2) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns, villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

The ordinary soldiers which are the large majority. This is also the standard of the _resident_ class dispatched to rural villages. 

## **Senior Soldier** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=5 Agility=13 Movement Speed=13 Number=One to several 

Frequency=Frequent Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 10 (3) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 Life Points/Resistance=13/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=13/11 (4) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns, villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

These are soldiers who guard major locations or command small groups. Most of these soldiers were promoted from normal soldiers and are also much older. 

## **Knight** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=5 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Moderate Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon: 12 (5) Strike Points=10 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=10 Life Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns Languages=Regional, common Perception=Five senses 

These are soldiers in the position of leading dozens of people. They're made up of elites from the nobility, and soldiers who've been recognized for their skill. This level of skill is required to serve in the king's royal guard (though this depends on the country). 

## **Knight Leader** 

Monster Level=7 Rarity=5 Agility=15 Movement Speed=15 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Friendly Attack Points=Weapon:14 (7) Strike Points=13 Evasion Points=15 (8) Defense Points=12 Life Points/Resistance=15/15 (8) 

231