# 13.2.13 Other

Mental Points/Resistance=15/15 (8) Special Abilities=None in particular Habitat=Towns 

Languages=Regional, common Perception=Five senses 

These soldiers are mainly elites of noble background, and command units of 100 men. Some of them are even higher level. By making their monster level higher, you can increase each score by the same amount you increased the monster level. 

## **[ Dark Priest Warrior ]** 

Priests who serve the wicked gods (mainly Phalaris) will often appear as enemies of the player characters. Since the teachings of the dark gods are what one would call _evil_ , this is likely unavoidable. Many are also trained as warriors as part of the doctrine of Phalaris. 

## **Beginner Priest** 

Monster Level=1 

Rarity=10 Agility=12 Movement Speed=12 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:8 (1) Strike Points=5 Evasion Points=9 (2) Defense Points=4 Life Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Mental Points/Resistance=12/9 (2) Special Abilities=1st level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=10/3) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This is a so-called _small fry_ class enemy. They rarely face adventurers alone, and are often led by a stronger priest. 

## **Priest** 

Monster Level=3 Rarity=10 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:10 (3) Strike Points=8 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=7 

Life Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=14/11 (4) Special Abilities=3rd level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

This is a priest class that has some degree of contact with the dark gods. Although seldom seen in the light of day, they are numerous in the underworld of Forcelia, often secretly planning and carrying out nefarious schemes. 

## **High Priest** 

Monster Level=5 

Rarity=10 Agility=16 Movement Speed=16 Number=One Frequency=Rare Intellect=Human Reaction=Depends on the situation Attack Points=Weapon:12 (5) Strike Points=11 Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=16/13 (6) Special Abilities=5th level dark magic (magic intensity/magic power=12/5) Habitat=Human villages Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

Those who reach the bigwig-class who plot great evil acts will tend to have a much deeper connection with the dark gods and can use powerful magic. There's even cases of a priest of this class ruling the entirety of a small village, unnoticed by the authorities. 

## **13.2.13** 

## **Other** 

## **[ Lycanthrope ]** 

A Lycanthrope is a monster with the ability to change from human to beast form. When in human form, they may acquire and use various skills, including magic, just like an adventurer. When in beast form, they cannot act intelligently, but rather follow their instincts and go on killing sprees. Magic and skills cannot be used. The game master can decide on a lycanthrope’s abilities while in human form (however, it should basically  only 

have acquired skills up to its monster level), or use the fixed scores for a normal man as given at page 230 (please set the life points high). 

Shapeshifting is affected by the waxing and waning of the moon. Compare the number of days since the new moon with _2D + 3_ at nighttime or _2D + 9_ in the daytime. When the number of days is 16 or more, compare it with _30 - the number of days_ (the waxing and waning of the moon in Forcelia is one cycle every 30 days). When the score is equal to or less than this, the lycanthrope will always enter beast form (the lycanthrope will always enter beast form on nights when the moon is full = 15 days). 

Even when it's not, a lycanthrope can transform into a beast at their own will. 

Lycanthropes have the ability to summon and control other beasts of their kind in their surroundings (wolves for werewolves, bears for werebears, etc.). Their habitat depends on the type of beast they shapeshift into. There may be some hiding their true identity and living among humans in towns and villages, but when their time comes, they're likely to take odd actions to hide their transformations. 

Lycanthropy is a type of infectious illness, and those who are wounded by a lycanthrope in beast form are at risk of becoming a lycanthrope of the same species. See p. 166 for details on this illness. 

## **Werewolf** 

Monster Level=4 Rarity=8 Agility=16 Movement Speed=24 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:11 (4) Strike Points=12 Evasion Points=12 (5) Defense Points=8 Life Points/Resistance=20/13 (6) Mental Points/Resistance=14/12 (5) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into wolf Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests 

232