# 13.3 Converting Character Data to Monster Data

## Languages=Regional 

## Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A werewolf is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a wolf. 

## **Werebear** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=10 Agility=14 Movement Speed=21 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Claw:13 (6)/ Claw:13 (6) Strike Points=15/14/14 Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Strangle:14 (7) Strike Points=15/13 

Evasion Points=13 (6) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=26/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into bear 

Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests Languages=Regional 

## Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A werebear is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a bear. Like a bear, it attacks with a bear hug (strangling). 

## **Weretiger** 

Monster Level=5 Rarity=11 Agility=21 Movement Speed=25 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Animal/Human Reaction=Adversarial 

Attack Points=Fangs:12 (5)/Claw:13 (6)/ Claw:13 (6) Strike Points=15/14/14 Evasion Points=14 (7) Defense Points=9 Life Points/Resistance=24/15 (8) Mental Points/Resistance=14/13 (6) Special Abilities=Normal weapon immunity after shifting into tiger 

Infect (Intensity 7) Habitat=Human villages, forests Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses (Illumination) 

A weretiger is a lycanthrope with the power to shapeshift into a tiger. 

## **[ Redcap ]** 

Monster Level=3 

Rarity=12 Agility=14 Movement Speed=14 Number=One to several Frequency=Rare Intellect=Low Reaction=Adversarial Attack Points=Weapon:10 (3) Strike Points=9 Evasion Points=11 (4) Defense Points=6 Life Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Mental Points/Resistance=15/11 (4) Special Abilities=Infection by gaze (Intensity 5) Habitat=Uncertain Languages=Regional Perception=Five senses 

A redcap is a patient suffering from the disease of the same name, **red cap** , and whose depth has reached 2 or greater. See p. 166 for details on this disease. 

## **13.3** 

## **Converting Character Data to Monster Data** 

Using the rules presented here, a game master can convert data created as a _character_ into the format of a _monster_ . There are two advantages to doing this. 

## **[ 1. The number of times the game master has to roll dice during combat will be drastically reduced ]** 

The game master will be freed from the labor of rolling dice, and will be able to manage enemy data in combat more easily. It’ll also give you more time to provide guidance to players who are unfamiliar with the rules. 

This is especially effective when there are many enemies. 

**[ 2. Enemy strike rolls can no longer critical ]** 

If an enemy's strike roll is a critical, resulting in heavy damage or even death, the player may feel frustrated that they've been _killed by a roll of the dice_ . This is because it's a process that cannot be dealt with by the player. If you change the enemy character's data to that of a _monster_ , the damage will be a fixed score called _strike points_ , so this kind of frustration should be less frequent. 

So, let us show you how. 

Adventurer level adapts directly to _monster level_ . 

_Rarity_ seems unnecessary, so we’ll omit it. 

_Agility_ and _movement speed_ use the character's _agility_ ability score as it is. 

_Attack points_ are the character's _attack power + 7_ . 

For _strike points_ , apply strike power to _Table 13-1: Key Number = Expected Equivalents_ , then add bonus damage to the result. Critical target is normally 10, 

**Table 13-1: Key Number = Expected Equivalents** 

|Critical Target 9|0-1|2-5|6-9|10-13|14-18|19-22|23-26|27-31|32-35|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|Critical Target 10|0-2|3-7|8-12|13-17|18-22|23-27|28-32|33-37|38-42|
|Critical Target 11|0-3|4-9|10-14|15-20|21-25|26-31|32-36|37-42|43-47|
|Critical Target 12|0-4|5-10|11-16|17-22|23-27|28-33|34-39|40-45|46-50|
|No Critical|0-5|6-11|12-17|18-23|24-29|30-35|36-41|42-47|48-50|
|Expected Value|2|3|4|5|6|7|8|9|10|



233