# 14.2 Adventure Treasure and Reward Amounts

## **14.1** 

## **Treasure and Rewards in Sword World** 

Think of the adventurers of Alecrast as basically on an adventure to search for treasure lying untouched in the ruins of the ancient kingdom. Enormous amounts of riches lie in the ruins that make a profession like theirs viable. The thing to remember here is that, in reality, neither silver nor gold coins existed in the ancient kingdom. Therefore, unless they were brought in after coins were invented, no such coins are buried in the ruins of the ancient kingdom. Many of the treasures found in the ruins of the ancient kingdom consist of handicrafts such as gems, precious metals, wares, works of art, etc. 

Of course, the ancient kingdom was a land where magic developed, so you’ll also find weapons, armor, treasure, 

books and scrolls, etc. imbued with magic. Much of the magic from the ancient kingdom period has been lost, so these items permanently imbued with magic cannot be produced in the present day. Therefore, these goods are extremely valuable and can be traded at high prices. However, unlike normal treasures, it’s not possible to appraise these goods unless you take them to a specialty shop, so they will likely not be purchased. In some larger towns, there are shops that buy and sell these treasures from the ancient kingdom. Shops like these are generally called _adventurer’s shops_ , they buy and sell equipment for adventures, and also double as taverns, used as places to exchange information regarding 

adventures. Typical adventurers in Alecrast use one adventurer’s shop as their base for adventure, thereupon gathering information about the ruins of the ancient kingdom, then setting off after readying their equipment, making their living selling the spoils. 

Due to their combat power and magic, and also their familiarity with various techniques, adventurers may also be hired as handymen in towns and villages. Requests for work like this also come to adventurer's shops. Naturally, much of the reward for resolving these jobs, etc. will be in silver coins (gamels). It’s also fine for a reward to be a kiss from a beautiful maiden, or some sort of special knowledge or information. 

## **14.2** 

## **Adventure Treasure and Reward Amounts** 

What kind of rewards should be given for an adventure is ultimately up to the game master. However, the rewards obtained from an adventure should comply with the level of risk. If you could obtain a large amount of treasure through an easy adventure, that would take the fun out of the game. The opposite can also result in players losing their motivation. 

To determine the value (upper limit) of the treasure that can be obtained in terms of silver coins, multiply the adventurer levels of all the player characters, then multiply the total by 500. 

Of course, depending on the contents of the scenario and the actions of the player characters, it’s fine to introduce unexpected treasure, or to even have an adventure that results in a deficit. Game masters should be aware of how much property and equipment the player characters have. 

## **14.2.1** 

## **Negotiations With Adventurers** 

Please consider the estimated reward for asking an adventurer to resolve a case to be around 50~200 times the (total of) each adventurer level. For a party consisting of three 2nd level characters and two 3rd level characters, the estimated reward is around (2 x 2 x 3 + 3 x 3 x 2) x 50~200 = 1500~6000 gamels total. 

Even if there’s variation in level between the party, please make sure the rewards presented are equal per person. In the above example, the reward presented would be 300~1200 gamels per person. A 3rd level character would not be presented 450~1800 gamels nor would a 2nd level character be presented 200~800 gamels. Rune masters tend to be lower level, but that doesn’t mean 

they’re any less useful than other characters. 

This reward is basically for a case that’s expected to be resolved in one day, or 3~4 days at most. If it’s shorter, there’ll be less of a reward, and if it’s longer, there’ll be more. Of course, this does not mean that the reward will increase if the adventurer intentionally delays the resolution. Such behavior would result in lost trust and likely void the agreement. 

In these contracts, 10~30% is given upfront as an advance payment. If you fail to resolve the case, you will not be paid the remaining money. If an adventurer abandons a job at his or her own convenience, it’s customary to return double the advance payment to the client. 

241