# 14.4 Magical Item List

## **Treasure Types** 

## **14.3** 

Here are some easy examples regarding the types of treasure you can obtain in Sword World. 

Artwork includes paintings, sculptures, and ornaments as well as vases and daily necessities, etc. 

These items can be discerned as treasure and their specific value can be determined by using the thief skill and sage skill’s _treasure appraisal_ ability. 

## **Gems and Precious Metals** 

This refers to wares and handicrafts, etc., made from gems and precious metals. These include crowns, rings, brooches, earrings, necklaces, bracelets, etc., and other accessories that are made with gems or precious metals. This kind of treasure can be judged as treasure or junk by using the thief skill and sage skill’s _treasure appraisal_ ability. If you spend enough time, you can determine a specific price. Naturally, merchants who deal with this kind of item can also determine the price. 

Their value is equivalent to at least 100 silver coins, and if they’re expensive, their value will skyrocket. 

## **Magical Items** 

There are many different types of these. First, there's magical weapons and armor, etc. It’s safe to assume that these items, which have lasted to this day without rusting, were endowed with permanent magical power by the sorcerers of the ancient kingdom. 

The lowest value is 10 silver coins, and the highest quality are worth around 10,000 silver coins. 

You can also see handicrafts that have magical power. For example, those called _Flying Carpet_ or _Sealing Jar_ . 

There are also staves, rods, wands, rings, etc. which contain magical power, and have the same effect as a spell when commanded by words (high or low ancient). These things are of immeasurable value to adventurers. Those activated by commands in low ancient can be handled by anyone– even those who cannot speak low ancient. All you need is to remember one simple word, or two or three words at most. 

## **Artwork** 

These are works of art created during the ancient kingdom period, and while their artistic value is great, you can say their antique value is even greater. Of course, they have no practical value. They’re not appreciated among those who don’t understand art, so outside adventurer’s shops, the only buyers are wealthy merchants, high-status nobility, and royalty. 

## **Magical Item List** 

## **14.4** 

Here is a list of magical items commonly seen in Alecrast. Of course, these are just examples, and the game master is free to create all sorts of other magical items. The **base trade price** is the price if an adventurer is lucky enough to be able to buy it (though such opportunities are rare). When adventurers sell them to an _adventurer’s shop_ or an _academy of sages_ , they’re usually accepted at half this price. 

In _Lomar_ , the _Kingdom of Travelers_ , there is a huge market called the _black market_ , where magical items are said to be traded. Magical weapons and armor are also said to be similarly sold in _Reide_ , the _City of Mercenaries_ , also located in Lomar. It’s fine if the game master chooses to only allow adventurers to pay for these items when the setting is in these cities. 

However, those with commands in high ancient can only be handled by those who have the sorcerer skill. High ancient has complex rules and restrictions, which make it difficult (and in some cases, extremely dangerous) to speak aloud without understanding 

These magical treasures can be understood through spells such as _Sense Magic_ , etc. and their specific power can be appraised using _Analyze Enchantment_ . Even the cheapest ones cost as much as 1000 silver coins, and if they’re expensive you can’t even put a price on them. 

Also, even if there’s no magical power, books and scrolls may contain high ancient spellbooks or valuable information about the culture of the ancient kingdom, so don’t ever treat them lightly. If you’re a sage who can read ancient, you can discover the specific value and cost of these items using the _treasure appraisal_ ability. 

Of course, in many cases the value of these treasures cannot be converted into a price. For adventurers, magical swords and armor are not something you can give up. The final value of the treasure is determined entirely by the player character (although it might not necessarily match the NPC’s). 

However, even then, you should _not_ be able to get your hands on items that are _too_ powerful. 

242

## **14.4.1** 

## **How to Read Item Details** 

## **Sword World RPG: Complete Edition Rulebook** 

## Rarity=5 

Form= An A4-sized, 352-page hardcover book 

Enchanter=Miyuki Kiyomatsu/Group SNE Base Trade Price = 3600 Yen 

Powers=Those who read it can know the rules of _Sword World RPG: Complete Edition_ . 

This is the rulebook for _Sword World RPG: Complete Edition_ . If you read this, you can understand the rules of _Sword World RPG: Complete Edition_ , and you’ll be able to enjoy adventures in Alecrast. 

First, the name of the item will be introduced in large print. Next, there are several game data entries, and a description at the end. 

## 《 **Rarity** 》 

This score is the target score for a success roll when using the sage skill’s _treasure appraisal_ ability. If the success roll results in a final score greater than or equal to this rarity, you will discover the true identity of the treasure. However, some treasures may have more than one listed rarity. In this case, the treasure appraisal may be _incomplete_ depending on the attained final score. This frequently happens with cursed items, etc. 

## 《 **Form** 》 

This indicates what the treasure looks like. 

## 《 **Enchanter** 》 

Magical items are always endowed with magical powers. The enchanter’s name is written here. 

## 《 **Base Trade Price** 》 

This is the price at which the item is traded. If it’s for sale, adventurers can buy it at the price shown here.  If an 

adventurer sells it, the standard price is half this amount. 

If the item is marked as (not for sale), the item is extremely dangerous, is a family heirloom, etc. and for these reasons will never be traded. 

You can’t even sell dangerous items because there are no buyers. At best, an _academy of sages_ might take it for 1/10th the price. If it's an heirloom and not for sale, you’re likely to find a similar case. 

If it's marked (estimated), the true abilities of the item are not clear, so the price is inferred based on generally understood abilities. 

## 《 **Powers** 》 

This briefly indicates the item’s magical powers. 

## 《 **Description** 》 

After a brief introduction of game data, a detailed description of the item is written. If the description written in the _Powers_ section is sufficient, this may be omitted. 

A (supplement) is an episode related to the item that's not directly related to the game. 

## 《 **Other** 》 

Depending on the item, other entries may be included in the data section. For example, for weapons and armor, an entry called _Required Strength_ will appear. The meaning of these special entries becomes obvious when you consider what the item is like. 

## **14.4.2** 

## **List of Magical Items** 

## **14.4.2.1** 

## **Weapons** 

## 《 **Magic Sword (+1)** 》 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=A dagger, a one-handed sword, or a two-handed sword 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage 

Rather than having these appear as _+1 swords_ , it might be better to refer to the descriptions of some of the following magical weapons and give each one a name and a history, as a way to enjoy the atmosphere of Alecrast. Here, as a guideline for rewards the game master should give to characters, is a list of prices of magical daggers, one-handed swords, and two-handed swords with +1 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|2800|13|6700|
|2|3000|14|8900|
|3|3400|15|11000|
|4|3800|16|13000|
|5|4100|17|15000|
|6|4300|18|17000|
|7|4600|19|19000|
|8|4900|20|22000|
|9|5100|21|24000|
|10|5400|22|26000|
|11|5600|23|29000|
|12|5800|24|32000|



## 《 **Magic Sword (+2)** 》 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=A dagger, a one-handed sword, or a two-handed sword 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage 

243

Here’s a list of prices of magical daggers, one-handed swords, and twohanded swords with +2 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|5300|13|62000|
|2|5700|14|83000|
|3|7400|15|100000|
|4|11000|16|120000|
|5|15000|17|140000|
|6|19000|18|160000|
|7|22000|19|180000|
|8|25000|20|210000|
|9|28000|21|230000|
|10|31000|22|260000|
|11|34000|23|290000|
|12|40000|24|310000|



## 《 **Magic Sword (+3)** 》 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=A dagger, a one-handed sword, or a two-handed sword 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+3 to attack power and bonus damage 

Here’s a list of prices of magical daggers, one-handed swords, and twohanded swords with +3 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|31000|13|370000|
|2|36000|14|390000|
|3|74000|15|410000|
|4|110000|16|430000|
|5|150000|17|450000|
|6|180000|18|470000|
|7|210000|19|500000|
|8|240000|20|530000|
|9|270000|21|550000|
|10|290000|22|580000|
|11|320000|23|620000|
|12|340000|24|650000|



## 《 **Assassin's Flute** 》 

Rarity=12 Enchanter=- 

Required Strength=4 

Form=A flute about 80 cm long 

Base Trade Price=300 gamels (not for sale) Powers=- 

This looks like a normal flute, but if you press the holes in a certain order, a blade will pop out from the tip and it’ll extend in length, allowing it to be used as a _strike power_ (or _required strength_ ) _4_ short spear. It’s an assassination weapon made by the assassin’s guild, and has no magical power. 

## 《 **Undead Ruler** 》 

## Rarity=18 

Enchanter=Jagrilis, "The Master of Death" Form=Mage's staff engraved with high ancient runes 

Required Strength=5 (Strike power 10) Base Trade Price=400,000 gamels 

(complete)/27,000 gamels (incomplete) Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. Makes undead monsters obey 

This staff grants its owner the power to make undead monsters obey. When the staff is _incomplete_ , the undead monsters that can be made to obey are limited to those whose _total monster level_ is _less than or equal to the owner's mental power_ . Make a success roll using _sorcerer skill level + intelligence bonus_ as the baseline score, and reveal the final score. If the score exceeds the target undead monster’s mental point resistance, they will obey. 

Once the staff is complete, you can control an _unlimited_ number of undead monsters, and you also gain a _+4 bonus_ to your final score when attempting to make them obey. 

This staff can _only_ be used by sorcerers. 

## 《 **Impulse** 》 

Rarity=12 Enchanter=Unknown Form=A mithril silver broadsword that emits a pale light Required Strength=16 (Strike power 21) Base Trade Price=27,000 gamels (not for sale) 

Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage 

(Supplement) _This is an heirloom sword passed down through the family of Güzelbahn, a noble family of Verdain. The Güzelbahn family has served the royal family as knights for generations, and those who hold the rank of knight are supposed to own this sword._ 

## 《 **Van Blade** 》 

Rarity=10 

Enchanter=Van 

Form=Greatsword with a shining white blade Required Strength=18 (Strike power 23) 

Base Trade Price=1,000,000 gamels (not for sale, estimated) 

Powers=+3 to attack power and bonus damage. Sense danger. Knowledge of past kings 

This greatsword's blade glows white to inform the user when danger approaches. The souls of the past kings of Ramliearth are also sealed in the sword, so the user can obtain advice from the kings. 

(Supplement) _This sword is a symbol of the Ramliearth royal family, and its owner is said to be one who qualifies as a king._ 

## 《 **Cat Claw** 》 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Small mithril silver knife with a sharp curved blade 

Required Strength=1 (Strike power 6) Base Trade Price=130,000 gamels 

Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage. -2 to critical target 

This is a small knife made of mithril silver, with a series of tiny blades that cut deeply, giving a -2 bonus to critical target. 

## 《 **Crusher** 》 

Rarity=17 Enchanter=Frodia, "The Liberator" Form=Heavy mace 

Required Strength=16 (Strike power 16, 21 with two hands) 

Base Trade Price=700,000 gamels Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage. +12 to the user's strength (strength bonus +2), furthermore, the user is no 

244

longer affected by magic that belongs to _physical ability_ 

## 《 **Green Light** 》 

## Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Somska, “The Forger of Colors” Form=A mithril silver broadsword with a green blade Required Strength=8 (Strike power 13) Base Trade Price=10,000 gamels Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage 

## 《 **Sea Slayer** 》 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Cyrus "The Uncertain" Form=A trident with a fish engraved on the handle 

Required Strength=15 (Strike power 15) Base Trade Price=235,000 gamels 

Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage only in water. Gives the user the ability to act underwater 

Those who use this can breathe underwater and move freely like a fish. However, on land it's merely a trident with no bonuses. 

## 《 **Shy Blade** 》 

## Rarity=17 

Enchanter=Yulandia, "The Wanderer" Form=Shortsword 

Base Trade Price=24,000 gamels Required Strength=7 (Strike power 7) Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage. Turns invisible with a password 

When you chant the specified password, this sword becomes completely invisible for 18 rounds. To someone you don't know, it’ll just look like you’re lightly clenching your fist. 

## 《 **Stone Statue** 》 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter=Rye Elk, "The Hundred Brained" Form=Bastard sword 

Required Strength=16 (Strike power 16, 21 with two hands) 

Base Trade Price=650,000 gamels Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. Also petrifies opponents it deals damage to. 

Anyone dealt damage by an attack from this sword must make a mental 

power resistance roll against target score 18. If you fail, you will be instantly petrified. 

## 《 **Slice Slider** 》 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Unknown Form=Scimitar 

Required Strength=14 (Strike power 14) Base Trade Price=83,000 gamels Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage 

## 《 **Twisted Sling** 》 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Dean "The Contrarian" Form=An old, slightly dirty sling Required Strength=4 (Strike power 4) Base Trade Price=80,000 gamels 

Powers=-1 to hit checks and damage under normal use, fires an _Energy Bolt_ with a password 

This looks like a worn-out sling with strings coming loose all over. Moreover, when used normally, both hit checks and damage will suffer a -1 modifier. However, when used without a bullet and with a low ancient password, it can fire a strike power 10, magic power 8 _Energy Bolt_ . 

## 《 **Fame Face** 》 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Rafiness "The Colorful" Form=Mithril silver broadsword with high ancient runes engraved in bright red on the back of the blade 

Required Strength=14 (Strike power 19) Base Trade Price=230,000 gamels Powers=+2 to attack power and bonus damage 

## 《 **Blade of Bravery** 》 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Rapier 

Required Strength=14 (Strike power 14) Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage 

Base Trade Price=9000 gamels (not for sale) 

(Supplement) _The blade of bravery is a famous sword passed down from generation to generation as proof of the head of the Sokran family, an Orphan_ 

_nobility that's existed since the days of Phan._ 

## 《 **Flame Smasher** 》 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Shiva, "The Friend of Salamander" 

Form=Bastard sword that spouts flames Required Strength=15 (Strike power 25, 30 with two hands) Base Trade Price=160,000 gamels Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. Always has _Fire Weapon_ cast on it 

Since this is always spouting flames (unless it’s in its sheath), it has +10 to strike power, just like _Fire Weapon_ . Therefore, its strike power is 25 (30 with two hands). 

## 《 **Blaster** 》 

Rarity=18 

Enchanter=Nimserias, "The Forger of Enlightenment" 

Form=Greatsword 

Required Strength=20 (Strike power 25) Base Trade Price=370,000 gamels Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. Shockwaves 

This magic sword can use unlimited shockwaves (strike power 10, magic power 10), equivalent to the holy magic _Force_ (however, magic expansion is not possible). It can also be used as a magical catalyst. 

## 《 **Brain Blade** 》 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Rye Elk, "The Hundred Brained" Form=Broadsword with a face-like engraving from the handle to the blade 

Required Strength=14 (Strike power 14) Base Trade Price=46,000 gamels 

Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. -1 to critical target. The sword itself is intelligent 

This sword has knowledge about enemies and speaks to the user's mind, telling him or her the enemy's name and strength in concrete scores. The contents of this knowledge are limited to _only_ what concerns the enemy. Also, the sword's language is low ancient, so a character who cannot speak low ancient cannot obtain this knowledge. 

245

## 《 **Mind Eater** 》 

## Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Shera, "The One Who Lives Between" 

Form=Broadsword with a slightly reddish blade 

Required Strength=14 (Strike power 16) Base Trade Price=20,000 gamels 

Powers=Also deals damage to mental points of whoever's body was dealt damage (no bonus) 

Anyone whose life force has been dealt damage by this sword will suffer 2 points of damage to their mental points unless they succeed on a mental power resistance roll against target score 11. This damage cannot be reduced by adventurer level, similar to that of _Mental Attack_ . Also, even if the sword does hit, this effect does _not_ apply if damage is _not_ dealt to life force. 

## 《 **Misty Sword** 》 

Rarity=14 Enchanter=Unknown Form=Ornately decorated Shamshir Required Strength=15 (Strike power 20) 

**==> picture [162 x 346] intentionally omitted <==**

## Base Trade Price=50,000 gamels 

Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage. Fresh water also flows from the blade 

This magical shamshir always has dew trickling down the blade, to wash away blood and grease. Moreover, when the user gives a command with a password, it can produce 1 liter of fresh water in 1 minute. This ability can be used up to 10 times per day. The water produced by this sword also allows you to use spirit magic sourced from the power of undine. This sword may have been made for travelers crossing the desert. 

## 《 **Red Eye** 》 

Rarity=13 

## Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Dagger with a ruby set in a silver handle 

Required Strength=3 (Strike power 3) Base Trade Price=5000 gamels Powers=+1 to attack power and bonus damage 

This dagger is of high value as a work of art. If you take out the ruby, the price will be 3400 gamels. The ruby itself costs about 1000 gamels. 

## 《 **Roan Ax** 》 

Rarity=11 

Enchanter=Roan, “The Imperfect” Form=Battle-ax 

Required Strength=18 (Strike power 18, 23 with two hands) Base Trade Price=7100 gamels Powers=+1 to bonus damage 

## **14.4.2.2 Armor** 

## 《 **Magic Armor (+1)** 》 

## **Non-metal or ring mail** 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Non-metal or ring mail armor Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+1 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

Similar to weapons, it's recommended to give each piece of magical armor its own name and lore by referencing the descriptions of magical armor that follow, which helps enhance the atmosphere of Alecrast. Here, we provide a price list of non-metallic or ring mail armor with _+1 power_ as a guideline for game masters when rewarding characters. For armor, items that exceed the _required strength_ often see decreased demand, so higher _required strength_ doesn't necessarily mean higher prices. This trend is particularly noticeable in non-metallic or ring mail armor preferred by thieves and rangers, where armor with high required strength tends to be avoided. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|23000|8|29000|
|2|26000|9|25000|
|3|28000|10|23000|
|4|30000|11|21000|
|5|32000|12|20000|
|6|32000|13|17000|
|7|31000|||



## 《 **Magic Armor (+1)** 》 

**Chain mail, splint, lamellar, plate armor** Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Many Form=Metal armor 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+1 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

This is a price list for magic metal armor with +1 power. While armor with high required strength tends to be unpopular, when it becomes 

246