## 14.4 Magical Item List

exceptionally high-end, it suddenly becomes an object of interest for enthusiasts, causing prices to _spike_ dramatically. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|10|23000|18|20000|
|11|24000|19|23000|
|12|24000|20|29000|
|13|22000|21|34000|
|14|21000|22|45000|
|15|19000|23|60000|
|16|17000|24|97000|
|17|18000|||



## 《 **Magic Armor (+2)** 》 

## **Non-metal or ring mail** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Non-metal or ring mail armor Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Powers=+2 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

Here is a list of prices of magical nonmetal or ring mail armor with +2 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|94000|8|87000|
|2|100000|9|66000|
|3|110000|10|52000|
|4|120000|11|47000|
|5|120000|12|42000|
|6|120000|13|36000|
|7|111000|||



## 《 **Magic Armor (+2)** 》 

**Chain mail, splint, lamellar, plate armor** Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many Form=Metal armor 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description Powers=+2 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

Here is a list of prices of magical metal armor with +2 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|10|63000|18|150000|
|11|73000|19|180000|
|12|84000|20|240000|
|13|92000|21|300000|
|14|100000|22|370000|
|15|110000|23|440000|
|16|120000|24|510000|
|17|130000|||



## 《 **Magic Armor (+3)** 》 

## **Non-metal or ring mail** 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter=Many Form=Non-metal or ring mail armor Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description 

Magic Power=+3 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

Here is a list of prices of magical nonmetal or ring mail armor with +3 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|1|200000|8|150000|
|2|210000|9|130000|
|3|220000|10|120000|
|4|230000|11|130000|
|5|230000|12|140000|
|6|220000|13|150000|
|7|190000|||



## 《 **Magic Armor (+3)** 》 

**Chain mail, splint, lamellar, plate armor** Rarity=16 Enchanter=Many Form=Metal Armor 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description Magic Power=+3 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

Here is a list of prices of magical metal armor with +3 power. 

|Required|Price|Required|Price|
|---|---|---|---|
|Strength|(Gamels)|Strength|(Gamels)|
|10|380000|18|620000|
|11|430000|19|660000|
|12|470000|20|720000|
|13|500000|21|780000|
|14|520000|22|850000|
|15|540000|23|920000|
|16|560000|24|1000000|
|17|580000|||



## 《 **Magic Shield** 》 

Rarity=12 (+1)/14 (+2)/16 (+3) Enchanter=Many 

Form=Shield 

Required Strength/Base Trade Price=See description Powers=+1~+3 to evasion speed 

This is a price list for magical shields with enchantments. For shields with +2 or higher enchantment, small shields tend to be more expensive than large shields due to differences in demand. For the same reason, high-quality large shields +1/+2 are more expensive than large shields +2/+3. Shields requiring strength of 13 cannot be used by most adventurers. 

|Shield|Price<br>(Gamels)|
|---|---|
|Small shield +1|4000|
|Large shield +1|6000|
|High-quality large shield +1<br>(required strength 8)|63000|
|Small shield +2|92000|
|Large shield +2|53000|
|High-quality large shield +2<br>(required strength 8)|180000|
|Small shield +3|240000|
|Large shield +3|107000|
|High-quality large shield +3<br>(required strength 8)|270000|



## 《 **Amber Robe** 》 

Rarity=18 

Enchanter=Many Form=Robe 

Required Strength=1 (Defense power 1) Base Trade Price=200,000 gamels 

247

Powers=+3 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

## 《 **Mithril Mesh** 》 

## **14.4.2.3 Other Items** 

## Rarity=14 

## 《 **Air Cloak** 》 

## Rarity=12 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=Transparent blue cloak Required Strength=1 (Defense power 1) Base Trade Price=16,000 gamels Powers=+2 to evasion speed only against projectiles 

## 《 **Grey Suit** 》 

## Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Somska, "The Forger of Colors" Form=Mithril silver chain mail armor that glows dull grey Required Strength=6 (Defense power 16) Base Trade Price=160,000 gamels Powers=+1 to evasion speed and damage reduction 

This mithril chain mail is highquality. 

## 《 **Cold Cloak** 》 

Rarity=18 Enchanter=Many Form=Cloth armor Required Strength=3 (Defense power 3) Base Trade Price=250,000 gamels 

Powers=+3 to evasion speed and damage reduction. Also gives +3 to resistance to firetype attacks. 

## 《 **Magic Acceptor** 》 

Rarity=12/17 Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Soft leather armor Required Strength=7 (Defense power 7) Base Trade Price=16,000 gamels Powers=+1 to evasion speed and damage reduction. Unable to resist magic. 

When performing a _treasure appraisal_ with the _sage skill_ , if the _final score_ of the success roll is between 12 and 17, it will only be identified as a +1 soft leather. Only when the _final score_ reaches 17 will you notice that this armor has a hidden drawback. This armor completely neutralizes the wearer's resistance to magic. As a result, while wearing this armor, all attempts to resist any magic automatically fail. 

Enchanter=Somska, "The Forger of Colors" Form=Cloth armor woven with fibrous mithril silver 

Required Strength=3 (Defense power 8) Base Trade Price=25,000 gamels Powers=-1 to opponent's strike points or +1 to their critical target 

There is no bonus to evasion speed. When facing monsters with fixed strike points, there is _1 point of damage reduction_ . When facing opponents who use weapons like adventurers and determine damage through strike rolls, there is an effect that _increases their critical target by +1_ , but there is no direct damage reduction. 

## 《 **Shield of the Brave** 》 

Rarity=13/18 

Enchanter=Cyrus, "The Uncertain" Form=Large shield with an emerald set in the center Required Strength=13 Base Trade Price=3300 gamels 

Powers=+1 to Evasion, +2 to resistance to Breath attacks, concentrates attacks on the owner 

When performing a _treasure appraisal_ with the sage skill, if the success roll's _final score_ is 13 or higher but less than 18, you can only determine that it is a +1 large shield that also provides +2 resistance against breath attacks. 

Only when the final score reaches 18 do you realize this shield has a catch. The emerald gleaming in the center of the shield attracts the attention of opponents, causing them to focus their attacks on the user. Enemies that use breath attacks will especially target the shield's wielder. Those who carry this shield, which trades higher evasion speed for drawing enemy attacks, are destined to become shields for their companions. If the emerald is removed, all magical power is lost. The emerald itself is worth 1000 gamels. 

## 《 **Accessories** 》 

## **[ Earrings of Interpretation ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Earrings with blue gems set in a teardrop-shaped gold base 

Base Trade Price=96,000 gamels 

Powers=Can understand languages you don’t know 

By wearing these earrings, you can understand the contents of conversations in languages you do not know. However, you can only understand conversations you hear through the earrings, you cannot speak, read or write that language. 

## **[ Earrings of Pooka ]** 

Rarity=13 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Small silver earrings with intricately colored gems 

Base Trade Price=170,000 gamels Powers=Can shapeshift into a small animal. 

When wearing these earrings and focusing your thoughts, you can transform into small animals such as mice or birds. After shapeshifting, you can return to your original form by either touching the earrings while concentrating, or by using _Dispel Magic_ (target score 15). Additionally, after shapeshifting, you retain the same intelligence you had before the transformation. 

## **[ Container Bracelet ]** 

Rarity=15 

Form=A bracelet with a large gem Enchanter=Many 

Base Trade Price=120,000 gamels Powers=Sucks in an object 

When you bring an object close to the jewel attached to the bracelet and speak the password in low ancient, the object will be absorbed into the jewel. While the object is absorbed, if you speak the password again, you can retrieve the object. 

248

This bracelet cannot absorb more than one object at a time, and it cannot absorb anything that exceeds 50 centimeters in length in any dimension. 

## **[ Sleepless Pendant ]** 

## Rarity=13 

Enchanter=Cyrus, "The Uncertain" Form=Small silver pendant Base Trade Price=80,000 gamels Powers=Wearer never falls asleep. 

This was created to allow working for long periods without sleep. Those who wear this pendant will never fall asleep. Neither the _Sleep Cloud_ of _ancient magic_ nor the _Sleep_ of _spirit magic_ will have any effect. However, it cannot reduce the fatigue and other effects that come with staying awake for long periods. If worn for too long, one might die from sleep deprivation. 

## **[ Necklace of Faith ]** 

## Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Gerebeis, "The Sharptongued" Form=Necklace adorned with bluish diamonds 

Base Trade Price=170,000 gamels Powers=Makes one target believe what the wearer believes. 

The effect of this item activates when the wearer directly looks at their target. If the target fails a _mental power resistance roll_ with a _target score of 16_ , they become affected by the effect. The effect cannot manifest on more than one target at a time. The effect continues as long as the item is worn. Once affected, the target will not change their beliefs no matter how they are persuaded or what evidence they are shown. However, if the wearer of the necklace themselves stops believing in the truth, the necklace's effect will disappear. 

Targets are limited to humans, fae, youma, titans, and animals. 

## 《 **Amulets** 》 

## **[ Amulet of Countersense ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many Form=Amulet 

Base Trade Price=190,000 gamels 

Powers=Know who is detecting 

If the owner of this amulet has a _Detection_ spell cast on him or her, the amulet will glitter and project the opponent who cast the spell. 

## **[ Amulet Versus Undead ]** 

Rarity=15 Enchanter=Many 

Form=Amulet 

Base Trade Price=6,000 gamels 

Powers=+1 to effect checks against undead 

If the person wearing this amulet uses the holy magic _Turn Undead_ or the spellsong Requiem, they can add +1 to a 2D roll when making an _effect check_ against undead (if the roll is 12, treat it as 12). 

## **[ Telecall Amulet ]** 

Rarity=10 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Amulet with a jeweled ball at the tip Base Trade Price=48,000 gamels 

Powers=The wearers can talk to each other over a far distance. 

This is a magical amulet that allows you to converse with someone in a distant location. The amulet possesses magical power such that when you correctly recite the password of your intended recipient's charm and speak towards the jewel at its tip, your voice will emerge from their jewel. In other words, at least two amulets are required to make a call. While this useful item has been found relatively frequently in the ruins of ancient kingdom, its communication range is limited to approximately 10 kilometers. 

## **[ Crystal ]** 

Crystals, represented by magic stones, are items that contain magic power sealed within crystals. They were produced in relatively large quantities during the Ancient Kingdom period. According to one theory, they were used as currency in the Kastuul Kingdom. Below, we will introduce their types. 

## **Magic Crystal** 

Rarity=13 

## Form=A stone similar to topaz that emits a bluish-white light from inside Enchanter=Many 

Base Trade Price=Stored mental points x mental points x 100 gamels 

When referring to a magic crystal, it means a stone that concentrates magic power. While it looks similar to topaz at first glance, upon closer inspection it emits a bluish-white light from within. Normally, this stone stores 2D+10 mental points, and a rune master can use magic by consuming these mental points instead of their own mental power. However, only one stone can be used at a time, and it cannot be used simultaneously with the caster's own mental power. It can also be used as a substitute for mental power when using common runes. 

When the stored mental points are depleted, the magic crystal shatters. The method of creating magic crystals has been lost, and it is impossible to replenish mental points in magic crystals. 

It is believed that these treasures were used as currency during the Ancient Kingdom period, and they are frequently discovered in the ruins of the Ancient Kingdom. The game master may decide that these are widely traded at the academy of sages. In this case, adventurers can purchase these stones if they have enough money. 

However, in most cases, the crystals being sold have few remaining mental points (meaning they have been partially used by others). 

249

## **Earth Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished amber crystal Base Trade Price=2,600 gamels 

Powers=Makes 10 square meters of ground underfoot (sand or mud) more stable 

An earth crystal will break after one use. 

## **Ice Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished white crystal Base Trade Price=5,000 gamels Powers=Has the same effect as Blizzard when thrown 

When thrown it deals strike power 20 damage within its area of effect, equivalent to _Blizzard_ . Its magic power is 5. Crystal breaks after one use. 

## **Water Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished blue crystal Base Trade Price=Remaining absorption points x 480 gamels Powers=Absorbs 10 points of fire damage 

Absorbs 10 points of fire and heat damage. For attacks like _Fireball_ , it absorbs all damage (except what exceeds 10 points). When hit by a weapon enchanted with _Fire Weapon_ , it only absorbs 2 points of the damage. After absorbing 10 points total, it breaks. 

## **Air Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished purple crystal Base Trade Price=Remaining number of uses x 800 gamels Powers=Can blow wind up to a speed of 10m in any direction 

By chanting a password, it’ll blow winds up to a speed of 10m within a 100m radius. It’ll break after 10 uses. 

Powers=Casts a Darkness spell 

When you chant the password, a darkness equivalent to _Darkness_ will appear. It’ll break after 10 uses. 

## **Fire Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished rose-colored crystal Base Trade Price=3,200 gamels 

Powers=Has the same effect as Fireball when thrown 

When thrown it deals strike power 20 damage within its area of effect, equivalent to _Fireball_ . Its _magic power_ is 4 and breaks after one use. 

## **Light Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished rainbow-colored crystal 

Base Trade Price=Remaining number of uses x 120 gamels Powers=Casts a Light spell 

When you chant the password, a light effect equivalent to _Light_ will appear. It’ll break after 10 uses. 

## **Lightning Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished yellow crystal Base Trade Price=1800 gamels Powers=Has the same effect as Lightning when thrown 

When thrown, a 20 meter bolt of lightning, equivalent to _Lightning_ , runs in that direction, dealing strike power 20 damage to those in its path. Its magic power is 3 and breaks after one use. 

## 《 **Staves and Wands** 》 

## **[ Ice Blaze Wand ]** 

Rarity=11 

Enchanter=Ladios, "The Sage of the Seabed" Form=Silver wand with a white crystal set in the tip 

Base Trade Price=Number of uses x 2,400 gamels 

Powers=Throws blades of ice to attack the target. 

When you wave this wand while chanting a password, countless small blades of ice will fly in a straight line. These blades of ice deal damage to all targets in their path. _Area of effect_ is 20m, _strike power_ is 20, _magic power_ is 6. This wand can only be used 1D+1 times. 

## **[ Staff of Sorcery ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Wolfen "The Powerless" Form=Pitch-black mage’s staff 

Required Strength=5 (Strike power 10) Base Trade Price=490,000 gamels (not for sale) 

Powers=Can use ancient magic up to 7th level. However, you’ll be controlled and manipulated by the staff 

The wielder of this staff can use ancient magic up to level 7, as if they were a sorcerer. 

However, for each spell cast, they must make a _mental power resistance_ roll with a target score of 16. If they fail, they become controlled by the staff. Even with a successful resist, the _target score increases by +1_ with each spell cast. If the staff is released for more than 1 day, the _target score_ returns to its original value. When the staff controls its user, it will attempt to cunningly and ruthlessly slaughter people, targeting magic users first. 

If consciousness is taken away through magic or if the staff is wrested away, those controlled by the staff will return to normal. 

## **Dark Crystal** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Spherical polished black crystal Base Trade Price=Remaining number of uses x 120 gamels 

250

## **[ Staff of Fire ]** 

## Rarity=15 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=Mage’s staff Required Strength=5 (Strike power 10) Base Trade Price=Remaining mental points x 350 gamels 

Powers=Can use fire-type ancient magic 

This staff stores 2Dx10 mental points. The user does not need to be a sorcerer. By waving the staff while chanting a password, you can use the _magic Tinder, Fire Weapon, Fireball,_ and _Suppress Elemental_ (salamander only). _Magic power_ is uniformly treated as 5 regardless of the user’s own magic power. The base mental power cost of the magic is then directly subtracted from the mental points stored in the staff. 

## **[ Sorcerer Staff ]** 

Rarity=13 Enchanter=Many Form=Mage’s staff 

Required Strength=5 (Strike power 10) Base Trade Price=60,000 gamels Powers=+2 to magic final scores 

If you cast a spell using this staff as a magical catalyst, it’ll add +2 only to the _final score of a success roll_ . There are no other bonuses. 

## **[ Delay Staff ]** 

Rarity=14 

## Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A beautifully carved wooden mage’s staff 

Required Strength=5 (Strike power 10) Base Trade Price=20,000 gamels Powers=Can store one spell 

This staff can be pre-imbued with magic that activates either when a specific password is spoken or after a predetermined time has elapsed. The spells that can be stored in this staff are limited to ancient magic with a consumed mental power (not the base mental power cost) of 3 or less. In other words, as a sorcerer reaches higher levels, they become capable of storing more powerful spells. To store a spell in this staff, you must expend the same amount of mental power as casting the spell normally would require. Furthermore, 

the mental power used to store a spell in this staff cannot be recovered by any means until the stored magic is used. Anyone who knows the password can activate the magic stored in the staff. If set to activate after a certain time instead of with a password, the spell will be centered on the staff. In this case, if the activating magic is an area-effect damage magic like _Fireball_ , the staff will be destroyed upon activation. While this staff can be used as a normal magical catalyst, it provides no bonus when used as a weapon. 

## **[ Power Wand ]** 

Rarity=17 Enchanter=Many Form=Wand Base Trade Price=120,000 gamels Powers=Fires Energy Bolt 

By chanting a password, you can fire unlimited energy arrows (strike power 10, magic power 6) equivalent to the ancient magic _Energy Bolt_ . This magic cannot be expanded. 

## **[ Plant Command Wand ]** 

Rarity=15 Enchanter=Unknown Form=A wand about 15cm long Powers=Can use plant spirit magic Base Trade Price=100,000 gamels 

Those with this wand will be able to cast spirit magic sourced from the power of plant spirits up to 8th level, such as _Binding_ and _Charm_ . The wand stores 100 mental points, and each time you use magic, the base mental power cost of the magic is consumed. When using this wand to cast magic, magic power is treated as 8 regardless of the user’s magic power. 

## **[ Memory Robber ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A simple wooden wand engraved with high ancient runes Base Trade Price=130,000 gamels Powers=Forget one specific memory 

To use this, the tip must touch the target's forehead.  If you want to use it _during combat_ , make a _hit check_ the same 

way as a normal weapon. Those being targeted can also resist. If you fail to resist, you _will lose one specific memory_ (the game master should decide the range of one memory at his or her discretion). This item's magic intensity is 15 (magic power 8). 

## **[ Lead Staff ]** 

Rarity=13 

Form=Staff with a gem on the tip Enchanter=Many 

Required Strength=1 (Strike power 6) Base Trade Price=64,000 gamels 

Powers=Falls in the gem’s direction or to the north 

The gem on the tip can be removed, and if the staff falls down while it’s removed, the staff will fall in the direction of the gem, regardless of the distance between the staff and the gem. When the gem is on, it’ll always fall to the north. This staff also functions as a magical catalyst. The price of the gem alone is 5000 gamels, and the staff with the gem removed is worth 3200 gamels. 

## 《 **Rings** 》 

## **[ Unpoison Ring ]** 

Rarity=10/15 Enchanter=Many 

Form=Thin gold ring 

Base Trade Price=Number of uses x 1000 gamels 

Powers=Eliminate poison or double its effect 

Whoever wears this ring can place their hands on a person affected by poison and attempt to detox. Make a success roll with a baseline score of 8. If the final score is greater than or equal to the poison’s toxicity score, it can be detoxed. However, if this fails, the poison's effect is doubled. First, damage is doubled. If it’s _not_ a damage poison, the _effect time_ will be doubled. Both _cannot_ be doubled. If _neither_ applies, the game master should make his or her own decision. If this ring increases the effect of the poison, further detox attempts will have +2 to the toxicity score. This ring can only be used 2D times. 

The detox effect can be discovered on final score _10_ when using _treasure_ 

251