## 14.4 Magical Item List

_appraisal_ , and the drawbacks on final score 15. 

## **[ Quickness Ring ]** 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter=Yeren "The Unrewarded Seeker" 

Form=White stone ring 

Base Trade Price=9,000 gamels 

Powers=+2 to the user's agility bonus 

By wearing this ring and chanting a password, the user’s agility bonus becomes +2. This effect lasts for 18 rounds from the round in which you chanted the password. There’s no limit to the number of times it can be used, but if the _same_ person uses it _more than once a day_ , he or she will suffer a -1 _penalty_ to their agility bonus thereafter. This penalty is _cumulative_ . If you use it _3_ times, it becomes _-2_ , and if you use it _4_ times, it becomes _-3_ . If you don't use the ring for one full day, the penalty will disappear. 

## **[ Thermal Ring ]** 

Rarity=15 

Form=Bracelet with purple gems Enchanter=Unknown 

Base Trade Price=32,000 gamels Powers=Keeps the wearer's body temperature constant 

This ring has the effect of keeping the wearer's body temperature constant. The wearer of the ring can feel comfortable even when exposed to the fierce heat of a desert or the cold weather of a snowy mountain. However, it’s not effective against _too_ high or low temperatures or _sudden_ changes in temperature, so it has absolutely _no_ effect against fire or cold produced by _magic_ . 

## **[ Parry Parry ]** 

Rarity=12 Enchanter=Many Form=A ring with small metal shaped like a disc 

Base Trade Price=7000 gamels Powers=+2 to evasion speed 

## **[ Fast Finger ]** 

Rarity=13 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=Silver ring in the shape of a bird's wings 

Base Trade Price=72,000 gamels 

Powers=+6 to agility when worn (agility bonus +1) 

Adds +6 to the wearer’s agility. At the same time, he or she will no longer be affected by magic that belongs to _physical ability_ . 

## **[ Linkage Ring ]** 

Rarity=15 

## Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A pair of (two) silver engagement rings 

Base Trade Price=64,000 gamels 

Powers=Two people who wear these can freely use each other's mental points between them 

When characters of the same race and opposite gender wear these rings, they can freely use each other’s mental points. However, if one person has a spell, etc., that affects the mind cast on him or her, it’ll affect _both_ people. These rings will not work unless both people are within 1 km. 

## **[ Rune Ring ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Karla "The Powerful" Form=Small platinum ring 

Base Trade Price=60,000 gamels 

Powers=+1 to magic power of ancient magic when you wear it 

Those who wear this will gain a +1 bonus to magic power of ancient magic. This ring also has the ability to act as a normal magical catalyst. 

## 《 **Other** 》 

## **[ Weightless Bag ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Lightly colored backpack Base Trade Price=40,000 gamels Powers=Removes gravity from objects in the bag 

This is a backpack made of a mysterious material that repels water. The weight of objects inside can be 

ignored. However, you can _only_ put in as many objects as you can outwardly _see_ , so if you put in something of an _abnormal_ weight (the game master should make a suitable decision), the magical power will disintegrate and it’ll tear. 

Combining it with the Bulkless Bag mentioned below, makes it possible to transport extremely large amounts of objects. Put the Bulkless Bag _in_ the Weightless Bag, _then_ put the objects in it. 

## **[ Explosive Bullet ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Many Form=Sling Bullet 

Base Trade Price=2500 gamels 

Powers=Explodes on impact, dealing strike power 30 damage 

This bullet explodes on impact, dealing strike power 30 damage regardless of the sling used. As usual, bonus damage is _fighter/thief/ranger skill level + strength bonus_ , and furthermore, your opponent can _only_ reduce this damage with adventurer level (monster level). 

## **[ Old Man Liar Punisher ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Relief of an old man’s face with its mouth half open 

Base Trade Price=150,000 gamels Powers=Sees through lies 

When someone puts his or her hand in the mouth and says something, and it’s a lie, the mouth will close and won’t let go of the hand until he or she admits _I lied_ . 

## **[ Card of Power ]** 

Rarity=13 

Enchanter=Void, "The Immoral Summoning Sorcerer" 

Form=Palm-sized card of unknown material Base Trade Price=Magic’s base mental power cost x 320 gamels 

Powers=User can use various ancient magic 

This item was developed so that even those without the sorcerer skill can use ancient magic. It does _not_ consume mental power when used. To use it, a 

252

manual written in low ancient is included in its box, and if you chant a spell name in low ancient while tearing up the card, the magical power previously bestowed on the card will be released. Magic intensity is 15, and the effect _cannot_ be expanded at all. 

This item is consumable. 

You can tell the effect of the card by the picture drawn on it. 

_Shield: Protection_ 

_Hero: Full Potential_ 

_Wings: Flight_ 

There are many other types of cards besides these (each game master should create them). 

## **[ Guard Glove ]** 

Rarity=12 

Form=Left hand (rarely right hand) glove Enchanter=Many 

Base Trade Price=1500 (Small shield)/5000 (Large shield) Powers=Generates a force field equivalent to a shield 

When the wearer grasps tightly while holding nothing in their hand, a force field is generated around his or her arm, which has the same effect as holding a shield. You _cannot_ use ancient magic while one hand is clenched. Also, if you’re holding something in your dominant hand, you _cannot_ use spirit magic either. There are two types of _Guard Glove_ ; one that generates a _large_ force field like a large shield, and one that generates a _small_ force field like a small shield. The force field generated by the Guard Glove has no weight, so it's possible for even those with a strength of 12 or less to handle a force field like a large shield. 

## **[Candlestick of Infinite (Un)Luck]** 

Rarity=15 Enchanter=Le Val 

Form=Silver candlestick densely engraved with high ancient runes 

Base Trade Price=1,000,000 gamels (not for sale) 

Powers=Gives good luck to the one who lights the candle 

If you light a candle in this candlestick (any normal candle on the market is fine), whoever lights it will be blessed with great luck. Misfortunes that may befall you will be prevented in some way before they happen, and business or stock speculation will definitely yield a profit. If you light a candle, the fire will magically last for one week, but the candle’s fire itself offers no protection and will easily go out with a slight breeze, etc. Then, if the candle’s fire in the candlestick goes out, that person will be struck by _every_ conceivable misfortune as a final result. Even if that person relights the candle, this misfortune _cannot_ be gotten rid of. 

## **[Crystal Orb of Clairvoyance]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Crystal ball about 10cm in diameter Base Trade Price=300,000 gamels~ Powers=You can see various places around the world 

This is a magical crystal ball that shows the user every place around the world. The extent to which the effect reaches depends on the magical power stored in the crystal ball. Particularly powerful ones are said to be able to ignore magical barriers that would completely block a normal crystal ball, or show the state of another world. 

The commonly found _Crystal Orb of Clairvoyance_ can project any place you’ve been to _before_ , but can only use this power _once per day_ . The duration is 15 minutes. 

## **[ Gale Horseshoes ]** 

Rarity=15 Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Horseshoes equipped to a horse Base Trade Price=50,000 gamels Powers=Increases the equipped horse’s movement speed by 10 

These horseshoes increase the movement speed of the horse they’re equipped to by 10. 

## **[ Sealing Jar ]** 

## Rarity=15 

## Enchanter=Unknown 

## Form=Iron jar 

Base Trade Price=1,000,000 gamels (not for sale) 

Powers=Seals something from another world within 

This jar is a magical jar that can seal things from another world, such as the spirit world, within it. It’s said to be able to seal not only lesser spirits such as salamander and sylph, but _also_ greater spirits such as djinn and efreet. 

If you point this jar at a spirit and chant a password, any kind of spirit can be entrapped. Once sealed, a spirit remains locked up until the lid is opened. If you open the lid, they immediately return to the spirit world. 

## **[ Seal Stone ]** 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A crystal-like stone about 10cm in diameter 

Powers=Seals a human soul 

Base Trade Price=480,000 gamels (not for sale) 

This stone’s magical power will appear when you aim it at an opponent and chant a password in low ancient. Those who fail to resist will have their soul sealed in the stone (resist target score is 18). A body that’s lost its soul _must_ faithfully obey the commands of the stone’s owner. It has no effect on undead, etc. which do not have souls. Only one person’s soul can be sealed in at a time. No memories will remain while the soul is sealed. 

If you hold the stone and chant the password of release, _or_ if you destroy the stone, the sealed soul will be released and return to its body. 

## **[ Jumping Boots ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Faye, “The One Who Wears the Wind” 

Form=Boots 

Base Trade Price=24,000 gamels Powers=The equipped person will be able to jump 3m high and 10m far. 

253

## **[ Scape Doll ]** 

## Rarity=12 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=A wooden doll about 20 cm long Base Trade Price=90,000 gamels Powers=Suffers damage in place of the user 

A scape doll takes the place of its user and suffers damage. 

If a character ties his or her hair to it and etches his or her name into it, then when he or she suffers physical damage, the scape doll’s life force will be reduced instead of that character’s life force. The scape doll’s life force will be the same as the life force of the character who etched his or her name into it. A scape doll will break when its life force reaches 0.  At this time, if there is surplus damage, reduce the character's own life force. 

However, if the scape doll itself suffers damage, the character’s own life force will decrease, rather than the scape doll’s life force. Once you start using it, this effect cannot be canceled even if you untie your hair. 

Also, if you use multiple scape dolls, all the scape dolls will break at the same time, so it’s completely pointless. 

## **[ Statue of Changing ]** 

## Rarity=14 

## Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=Four statues of a crocodile, a snake, an ape and a bear made of mithril silver Base Trade Price=480,000 gamels (not for sale) 

Powers=Anyone who touches the statue shapeshifts into the form of the same animal as the statue (other than the snake) 

Anyone who touches this statue will shapeshift into an animal of the same form as the statue. A shapeshifted form can return to his or her original state by either touching the snake statue or with _a final score_ 15 _Dispel Magic_ . 

The animals you can shapeshift into by touching each statue are as follows. Crocodile=Crocodile Bear=Grizzly Ape=Boss Ape 

immediately if they fail a mental power resistance roll against target score 16. You’ll usually need to hide it with an eyepatch, etc. 

## **[ Spirit Sealing Stone ]** 

Rarity=16 Enchanter=Unknown Form=White gem Base Trade Price=45,000 gamels Powers=Seals a spirit 

## **[ Zero Gravity Disc ]** 

If _spirit magic_ is used around the wearer (used towards the wearer, or the wearer him or herself attempts to use spirit magic), this stone will seal the spirit, and the spirit magic is nullified as a result. 

## Rarity=18 

Enchanter=Kaiber, "The Sorcerer of Gravity" Form=A 1.5m diameter golden plate Base Trade Price=160,000 gamels Powers=Negates gravity 

This plate is made of a magical metal that completely negates gravity. All objects placed on the plate lose their weight, and the plate itself is always floating. 

However, if you try to block magic that uses a spirit with an average monster level of 5 or greater, the magic _itself_ will be blocked but the spirit will _not_ be sealed and the stone will _break_ . Also, greater spirits _cannot_ be sealed, so spirit magic used _will_ take effect as-is, and at the same time the stone will _break_ . 

If you push it up towards the sky, it’ll fly anywhere as-is. 

## **[ Soft Lander ]** 

Rarity=12 

Only _one_ lesser spirit can be sealed at a time. If a spirit has _already_ been sealed, the stone is of no use. A shaman can release a sealed spirit. Also, if it’s an _undine_ , _salamander_ , _sylph_ , or _gnome_ , it’s possible to expel them (to the spirit world) using the ancient magic spell _Suppress Elemental_ . 

Enchanter=Faye, “The One Who Wears the Wind” Form=Cloak 

Base Trade Price=24,000 gamels Powers=Reduces fall speed 

When you wear this cape, you’ll fall at a very slow speed. However, the magical power will not work unless you’re at least 1m above the ground. 

## **[ Sleep Eye ]** 

Rarity=18 Enchanter=Unknown 

## **[ Daemon Jar ]** 

## Rarity=16 

Form=Glass prosthetic eye Base Trade Price=280,000 gamels 

Enchanter=Unknown 

## Form=Iron jar 

Powers=Puts those who stare at it to sleep 

Base Trade Price=1,000,000 gamels (not for sale) 

This is used by transplanting it into a body in place of a lost eye. Anyone who sees this eye (even if it’s an image reflected in a mirror) will fall asleep 

Powers=Summon a daemon 

When you chant a password, a daemon will be summoned from the jar. 

**Table 14-1: Daemon Jar Summon** 

|2D|Result|
|---|---|
|2|An Archdaemon appears and drags the summoner into the jar!|
|3～5|Aetherbeast|
|6|Grunel|
|7|Doubleburg|
|8|Zalbard|
|9|Ragnakang|
|10|Maligdorai|
|11|1D Hellhound or Cerberus|
|12|Doppelganger or other Greater Daemon|



254

The summoned daemon will obey the summoner's commands. Please use _Table 14-1: Daemon Jar Summon_ to determine which daemon will appear.  If the summoner is gone, the daemon, according to its intrinsic nature, will begin to act violently. 

## **[ Daemon Hand ]** 

Rarity=16 

Enchanter= "All-encompassing" Phreg Form=Gloves with fingers that are twice as long as normal 

Base Trade Price=6000 gamels Powers=With freely-moving fingertips, gain a +2 to the thief skill’s _lockpicking_ , _remove/set trap_ , _climb_ , and _pickpocket_ checks 

## **[ Dragon Tooth ]** 

Rarity=10 Enchanter=- 

Form=Dragon tooth Base Trade Price=5000 gamels Powers=Material for a skeleton warrior 

By casting the 5th level ancient magic _Skeleton Warrior_ on this tooth, you can create a puppet golem, a skeleton warrior (dragontooth warrior). 

## **[ Tracer Doll ]** 

Rarity=11 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=A doll about 30 cm long 

Base Trade Price=260,000 gamels 

Powers=Indicates direction of a specific object or person 

This doll, which looks like a woman with one arm raised, was made to prevent the loss of important things, so it's endowed with the magical power to _remember_ specific objects or people, and always points in the direction they're located (are). In a state where it does not have anything to _remember_ , or if the thing it _remembers_ has been lost, the doll cannot point anywhere and will just spin around. To make it _remember_ something, you must touch the doll to the object and chant a password. What the doll _remembers_ is displayed on its pedestal, so you can know this if you read low ancient. 

## **[ Night Goggles ]** 

Rarity=18 

Enchanter=Unknown Form=Glasses with red lenses Base Trade Price=130,000 gamels Powers=See through darkness 

When you put on these goggles, you’ll be able to see through darkness as if it were daytime, just like a dwarf. 

## **[ Fire Jack ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Unknown 

## Form=An old wooden box 

Base Trade Price=3200~8000 gamels Powers=Explodes if opened by someone who doesn't know how. 

A jack-in-the-box made by a crafty sorcerer in the ancient kingdom, mainly used as a treasure chest. If someone who doesn't know how to open it carelessly opens it, it’ll cause an explosion similar to _Fireball_ (strike power 20). Magic power varies from 4~10. 

## **[ Bag of Protection ]** 

Rarity=10 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A 20 x 20cm bag made of a mysterious brown material 

Base Trade Price=250,000 gamels Powers=Protects objects put inside the bag from detection magic. 

A bag created during the ancient kingdom period that protects objects put inside from the effects of any detectiontype magic.  However, the objects being protected must be completely inside the bag, if they stick out of the bag even a little, the effect will not be attained. In addition, not only are the things inside not affected by detection-type magic, but so is the bag itself. 

## **[ Bulkless Bag ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Many 

Form=Lightly colored backpack Base Trade Price=200,000 gamels Powers=You can put objects in regardless of size 

This is a backpack made of a mysterious material that repels water. You can put objects up to 5m square into the bag, regardless of size. However, the 

weight remains the same. When putting an object in, place it in contact with the bag’s opening and it’ll go in when you push it. To take it out, put your hand inside and think of the object itself (you can also take it out with a vague thought, but it’s not reliable). If you turn it upside down and shake it, everything will come out. Also, it's only _slightly_ stronger than leather, so if you try to trap monsters, etc. in it, it'll probably break from the inside. 

Combining it with the Weightless Bag mentioned above, makes it possible to transport extremely large amounts of objects. Put the Bulkless Bag _in_ the Weightless Bag, then put the objects in _it_ . 

## **[ Forging Sheath ]** 

Rarity=15 

Enchanter=Unknown 

## Form=Sheath for a broadsword 

## Base Trade Price=6000 gamels 

Powers=Gives a sword the effect of _Enchant Weapon_ when unsheathed 

This sheath is made to fit a broadsword and can _only_ hold a broadsword. 

If it _is_ a broadsword, the sheath will automatically expand or contract to adjust for any slight differences in length. If you keep a sword in this sheath for more than one hour, then draw the sword from the sheath, it’ll have +5 to strike power and will be able to harm monsters that cannot be wounded by normal weapons for 18 rounds, just like if _Enchant Weapon_ magic were cast on it. The sheath’s _Enchant_ effect can be removed with a _Dispel Magic_ spell. 

## **[ Flying Carpet ]** 

Rarity=14 

Enchanter=Unknown 

Form=A carpet about 1m square 

Base Trade Price=180,000 gamels 

Powers=You can move through the air by riding on the carpet. 

This is a magic carpet that moves with a password, carrying one person and flying freely in the air for an hour. However, it is best to avoid somersaults and sudden changes in course. Also, if you don't hold your baggage securely, it can easily fall off the carpet.  In addition, 

255

movement speed during flight is 50, with a maximum speed of about 50km per hour.  This carpet can only be used once per day. 

## **[ Flying Mantle ]** 

## Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Faye, “The One Who Wears the Wind” 

Form=Mantle 

Base Trade Price=400,000 gamels Powers=You’ll be able to fly 

When you wear this, you’ll be able to fly freely in the air. Movement speed when flying is 50, with a maximum speed of about 50km per hour. 

## **[ Potion of Power ]** 

Rarity=15 

Form=Potion 

## Enchanter=Many 

Base Trade Price=10,000 gamels (not for sale) Power=Increase an ability score by 1 point 

If a character drinks this potion, it’ll _permanently_ increase an ability score by 1 point. Just like when increasing with experience points, there is _no_ maximum. Which ability score is increased is determined by each potion (all six types exist). 

Even if the game master approves the trade of magical items, this item should be considered in _short_ supply, nearly _impossible_ to find, and _not_ for trade. Otherwise, adventurers with money could buy up this item, which could potentially have a serious impact on game balance. 

you need magic power (baseline score for a success roll), use the sorcerer's. 

Some of these scrolls have _lost_ spells written on them. In this case, the _Base Trade Price_ will be x 1.5. If you bring it back without using it, perhaps the _lost_ magic may spread throughout the world through the research of an _academy of sages_ . Scrolls with _lost_ spells written on them are almost certainly _not_ sold on the market. 

## **[ Mask of Scale ]** 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Ladios, "The Sage of the Seabed" Form=A jade-colored mask imitating a human face 

Base Trade Price=54,000 gamels 

Powers=Allows you to breathe underwater 

When you wear this mask, you can breathe underwater. 

## **[ Mask of Lady ]** 

Rarity=12 

Enchanter=Varmir "of the Twilight" Form=A white ceramic mask in the shape of a beautiful woman's face Base Trade Price=170,000 gamels Powers=+4 to resistance to _mind_ magic, reduces mental damage by 2 points 

The wearer receives a +4 bonus to resistance to magic that affects the mind. In addition, you can reduce the damage you’re dealt from magic or monster special attacks that directly deal damage to mental power by 2 points. 

## **[ Mirror of Knowledge ]** 

Rarity=15 

## **[ Mirror of Truth ]** 

Rarity=15 

## Enchanter=Many 

Form=Mirror with high ancient runes densely engraved on the frame 

Powers=Shows the natural form of the person reflected in the mirror Base Trade Price=380,000 gamels 

This mirror reflects the natural form of the person standing before it. Anything whose appearance has been changed by illusion or shapeshifting magic will have its natural form exposed in this mirror. 

## **[ Unicorn's Horn ]** 

Rarity=12 Enchanter=- 

Form=A spiral-shaped horn about 50cm long Base Trade Price=11,000~220,000 gamels (depends on remaining mental points) Powers=Can use life spirit magic. 

Those who have this horn will be able to cast all spirit magic sourced from the power of the unknown spirit of life, such as _Healing_ and _Restore Health_ . The horn stores 10~200 mental points, and each time you use magic, the base mental power cost of the magic is consumed. If you need the horn’s magic power, set it to 10. 

Enchanter=Many 

## **[ Magic Scroll ]** 

## Rarity=13 (However, if a sorcerer reads it, it will always be identified) 

Form=A scroll with a spell written on it Enchanter=Many 

Base Trade Price=Magic level x magic’s base mental power cost x 20 gamels 

Powers=Can use a magic spell only once 

A magic spell is written on this (in high ancient). If a sorcerer reads it, he or she can use the magic written on it only _once_ . It doesn’t matter if the sorcerer skill level has not reached the magic level, _nor_ does it consume mental power. However, the magic _cannot_ be expanded. When 

Form=Mirror with high ancient runes densely engraved on the frame 

Powers=The mirror spirit will answer simple questions Base Trade Price=390,000 gamels 

You can ask the mirror spirit sealed inside the mirror to answer a simple question. The mirror spirit knows everything reflected in mirrors around the world, so it's quite knowledgeable. However, since it has difficulty communicating with humans, it cannot answer _complex_ questions. 

256