# 15.1 Four Types of Experience Points

## **Four Types of Experience Points** 

## **15.1** 

If you were to become one of the thieves' transport partners without realizing they’re stolen goods, your mission would _not_ be accomplished. 

In _Sword World RPG_ , there are four ways to gain experience points. These are **accomplishing missions** , **fighting monsters** , **success rolls** , and **special bonuses** . 

If each character achieves the goal (mission) set by the game master, they will each receive **1000** experience points. If they _cannot_ achieve it, they will only get **500** points. 

## **Accomplishing Missions** 

Most experience points are earned by accomplishing missions. When creating an adventure scenario, the game master sets one goal. If you're going into ruins to search for treasure, the goal is probably the treasure hidden there, and if you're rescuing a captured dignitary, it’s to bring that person back safely. 

If the game master deems it to be an incomplete success, but not _exactly_ a failure, he or she may decide to award experience points somewhere in between, such as 700 or 800. 

## **Fighting Monsters** 

When you achieve a goal set by the game master, you will receive experience points for _accomplishing missions_ . 

You can also earn experience points by defeating monsters. **Monster level x 10 ÷ number of adventurers** experience points will be awarded for each monster. 

This may be different from what it appears to be upon entering the scenario. Upon closer examination, a request to transport an item may turn out to be stolen goods, and in a change of situation, must be returned to its rightful owner. At this time, the mission will only be accomplished if it's returned to its rightful owner. 

## **Success Rolls** 

This depends on how much work the adventurers did during the adventure. How assertively the adventurers acted is reflected by the number of dice rolls made by the players. 

However, it can be difficult to remember every time the dice were rolled, so only the number of times a player rolled _double ones during a success roll_ should be recorded. Double ones when making checks for _damage dealt in combat_ or _armor defense effects_ in combat should _also_ be added to the number of times. The adventurers will earn **number of double ones x 10** experience points. However, _double ones after a critical_ during damage checks are _not_ included. Also, experience points should _not_ be awarded for meaningless success rolls. Unlike the previous two types, experience points earned in this way will _vary_ depending on the adventurer. 

## **Special Bonuses** 

The game master is free to award bonus experience for particularly outstanding play. However, this should be done as _sparingly_ as possible. Giving away a large amount of experience points is harmful to the enjoyment of the game. It'd be most appropriate to keep it to about **1/10th** of the experience points earned from accomplishing a mission. 

258