# 16.2 Weapon and Armor Modifiers

## **16.2** 

## **Weapon and Armor Modifiers** 

## **16.2 Weapon and Armor Modifiers** 

In the basic rules, we did not consider the finer differences based on the shape of weapons and armor, but even though the required strength is the same, swords, axes, spears, and hammers differ in ease of use and power. This rule quantifies the finer differences between weapons and armor. 

## **Weapon Modifiers** 

Here is a table of weapons commonly used by adventurers (" _Table 16-1 Weapon Optional Rules_ "). 

The terms used on this table are explained below. 

## **Attack Power Modifier** 

**Attack power modifier** indicates the modifier added to an adventurer's attack power when using that weapon. Weapons with higher numbers are more likely to hit an opponent, while weapons with smaller numbers are less likely to hit. 

## **Strike Power Modifier** 

**Strike power modifier** is a modifier added to a weapon’s _strike power_ . In the basic rules, a weapon's required strength _is_ its strike power, but with this rule, a weapon's strike power equals **weapon's required strength plus this strike power modifier** . In other words, even if the required strength is the _same_ , one can say a weapon with a _higher_ strike power modifier will deal _greater_ damage to an opponent. 

## **Table 16-1 Weapon Optional Rules** 

|Type|Attack Power Mod.|Strike Power Mod.|Critical Target|
|---|---|---|---|
|Swords/1H|±0|±0|10*|
|Swords/2H|±0|+5|10*|
|Axes/1H|±0|+5|11*|
|Axes/2H|±0|+10|11*|
|Spears/1H|-1|+5|10*|
|Spears/2H|±0|+5|10*|
|Maces/1H|+1|+5|12|
|Maces/2H|+1|+10|12|
|Clubs/1H|+1|±0|12|
|Staves/2H|+1|+5|12|
|Flails/1H|-1|+5|10|
|Flails/2H|-1|+10|10|
|War Hammer/1H|-1|+5|10|
|War Hammer/2H|-2|+15|10|
|Bows|±0|+5|10*|
|Crossbow|±0|+10|10*|
|Slings/1H|±0|+5|11|
|Slings/2H|±0|+10|11|
|Rocks|+1|±0|12|
|Whip/1H|-2|0**|10*|
|Net/1H|-2|-△|-△|
|Bola/1H|-2|-△|-△|
|Cranequin Crossbows|±0|x2+10△△|10*|
|Pole Weapons|Various|Various|Various|
|Lance/1H|-1|+15***|10*|
|Shotel/1H|-1|±0|10*|
|Cestus/1H|+1|±0|12|
|Blackjack/1H|±0|±0|12|
|Garrote/2H|-2|10**|10|
|Prodd/2H|±0|+10|10|
|Dart/1H|-1|+5|10*|
|Small Shields/1H|±0|±0|12|
|Large Shields/1H|-1|±0|12|
|Barehanded/1H|±0|0**|12|



*Critical Target +1 against metal armor. 

** Strike power itself is 0 or 10 

△ Cannot deal damage 

△△ Calculate using _required strength_ x 2 + 10 

***The lance itself has a +5 strike power modifier, +10 during a charge, and +2 damage itself 

## **Critical Target Variation** 

Under the basic rules, when using the _Rating Table_ to determine damage, a 10 or greater is considered a _critical_ , but with this rule, the chance of a _critical_ is _different for each weapon_ . This is indicated by the _critical target_ . Axes, maces, etc. do _not_ critical even if you roll a 10, but rather require an **11** or **12** . One can say that the _lower_ this score, the _more_ 

262