# 16.3 Projectile Bonus Damage

likely you are to deliver a powerful strike. Weapons classified as _swords_ , _axes_ , _spears_ , _bows_ , and _crossbows_ suffer +1 to this critical target against _metal armor_ . 

In other words, these sharp weapons are less likely to deliver a powerful strike due to the armor’s metal. 

## **Number of Projectile Shots** 

When using the _weapon modifiers_ optional rule, there is a limit to the number of times a projectile can be fired. 

A sling can shoot every round if it fires its _own_ bullets. However, if you pick up pebbles, etc. on the ground and use them as bullets, it _must_ be every _other_ round. 

A crossbow can _only_ shoot every _other_ round due to the time it takes to wind them up. If you set a quarrel in advance, the _first_ shot will not take long. However, if you leave it set for a long time, the string will lose its elasticity, and the quarrel will easily come off if you tip the crossbow. 

Throwing weapons can be thrown _every_ round if they're kept ready in a place that's _easy to reach_ (such as on a belt, etc.). But if _not_ , they’ll take _one_ round to prepare and can only be thrown every _other_ round. 

A bow can be fired _every_ round. However, this is _only_ if you have arrows ready in your quiver. 

## **Armor Modifiers** 

" _Table 16-3 Armor Optional Rules_ " is a table of numerical armor modifications. 

## **Evasion Modifier** 

**Evasion speed modifier** is the **evasion speed penalty** you suffer while 

## **Shield Modifiers** 

wearing that armor. Heavy metal armor slows down your movement and makes it more difficult to dodge your opponent's attacks. 

With this optional rule, there are differences in the way small and large shields are handled ( _Table 16-2: Shield Optional Rules_ ). 

## **Defense Modifier** 

If you ready a shield, it’ll be easier to avoid your opponent's attacks. With this rule, if you ready a _large_ shield, your _evasion speed_ will be +2. However, if you do use a large shield, it’s inevitable that you’ll have to neglect your attacks. Therefore, when using a large shield, you will suffer a -1 penalty to your _attack power_ . However, large shields with a _magical power_ of +1 or greater do _not_ have this penalty. 

**Defense power modifier** is the **defense power bonus** you receive while wearing that armor. Metal armor generally has a higher defensive effect and grants a bonus to defense. 

## **Critical Target Variation** 

**Critical target variation** indicates that the armor _reduces_ the chance of being dealt a strong blow from some weapons while wearing it. If this field says _yes_ , the _opponent's_ critical target will be +1 when they attack you with a sword, spear, etc. 

**Table 16-2 Shield Optional Rules** 

|Shield<br>Name|Evasion<br>Speed Mod.|Attack<br>Power Mod.|
|---|---|---|
|Small<br>Shields|+1|±0|
|Large<br>Shields|+2|-1|



**Anti-Strangling Protection** The _anti-strangling protection_ indicates whether the armor protects you when being strangled by a garrote or arms around the neck. 

**Table 16-3 Armor Optional Rules** 

|Armor Name|Evasion Speed<br>Mod.|Defense<br>Mod.|Critical Target<br>Change|Anti-strangling<br>Prot.|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|**Non-metal armor**<br>Cloth Armor<br>Sof<br>Leather<br>Armor<br>Hard<br>Leather<br>Armor|±0<br>±0<br>±0|±0<br>±0<br>±0|No<br>No<br>No|No<br>No<br>No|
|**Metal Armor**<br>Ring Mail<br>Armor<br>Splint Armor<br>Chain Mail<br>Armor<br>Lamellar Armor|±0<br>-1<br>-1<br>-1|±0<br>+5<br>+5<br>+5|Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes|No<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes<br>Yes|
|Plate Armor|-1|+5|Yes||



## **16.3** 

## **Projectile Bonus Damage** 

In the basic rules, any weapon’s bonus damage equals _fighter (or thief, ranger) skill level + strength bonus_ , but for _projectiles_ , an adventurer’s strength is not fully utilized as-is. 

Bonus damage added to a bow or crossbow equals **skill level + {bow’s required strength ÷ 6 (rounded down)}** . It’s wasteful to pull a _light_ bow with _so_ much strength that it breaks. 

263