# 16.8 Weapons and Armor That Are Too Heavy

## **16.6** 

## **Holding Weapons in Both Hands** 

In the basic rules, characters cannot hold separate weapons in each hand. However, there are many people who admire dual wielding. This section presents extended rules for **holding weapons in both hands** . 

## **16.6.1 Character's Dominant Hand** 

Characters are generally righthanded or left-handed, but in actuality there are also people who are _ambidextrous_ . Therefore, when creating an adventurer, let's say that if you roll 2D and get _double sixes_ , they'll be ambidextrous. 

Left-handed or right-handedness is decided by the player's preference. 

## **16.6.2** 

## **Two-Handed Attacks** 

If a character has weapons in both hands, he or she has three options for attacking. 

**Attack with the weapon in your dominant hand** = Same as basic rules. **Attack with the weapon in your opposite hand** = -2 penalty to attack power. 

## **Attack with both hands at the same** 

**time** = _-2_ penalty to attack with _dominant_ hand, _-4_ penalty to attack with _opposite_ hand. Also, the required strength for _one_ of the weapons is limited to _half your own strength (rounded up)_ . If you’re fighting with the thief skill, the required strength for _both_ weapons is only _half_ the character's strength. There’s _no_ need to reduce one to a quarter. 

When a character is ambidextrous, there is _no_ opposite hand. If you attack with only _one_ hand, there is _no_ penalty, and if you attack with _both_ hands, the penalty is only _-2_ for each. 

## **16.7** 

## **Throwing Multiple Darts or Daggers** 

It’s possible to throw **multiple** darts or daggers at once. However, the following restrictions occur in this case: 

1. All objects thrown at the same time must have the _same weight_ (required strength). 

2. The _total required strength_ must be up to the _character's strength_ (or _half_ that if it's the thief skill). 

3. The _number_ thrown at the same time becomes a _penalty_ to attack power. For example, if you throw _three_ at the same time, that’ll incur a -3 penalty to your attack power for each hit check. 

4. You _cannot_ choose _multiple_ targets. There must _always_ be _one_ target. 

This optional rule increases the chance that a high-level character will defeat a low-level character or monster in one blow. 

Never forget the limitation of projectiles: they _cannot_ be used while in an _engagement_ . 

## **16.8** 

## **Weapons and Armor That Are Too Heavy** 

A Character can also use weapons and armor whose required strength **exceeds** his or her own strength. However, at this time, you’ll suffer a penalty to your _attack power_ or _evasion speed_ . 

## **If a Weapon or Shield’s Required Strength Exceeds Your Strength** 

For each point of required strength, reduce _attack power_ by -1. If one in _one hand_ is too heavy, you will receive a penalty, but there will be _no_ stacking. For example, if your sword is 3 too heavy in required strength and your shield is 2 too heavy in required strength, your penalty is **-3** . 

## **If Armor’s Required Strength Exceeds Your Strength** 

For each point of required strength, reduce _evasion speed_ by 1. At the game master's decision, any success roll that uses _agility bonus_ as a baseline score may be subject to an _equal_ penalty 

268