# 16.9  Special Weapons

## **Special Weapons** 

## **16.9** 

This section introduces special weapons and their descriptions. It’s up to each game master to decide whether to implement these in their game. **Pole Weapons** A pole weapon is a general term for a two-handed weapon that has a long handle with a metal blade attached to the end. There are halberds, pole axes, lancers, partisans, glaives, pikes...... and many others. 

_score at that time_ as the target score. If he or she fails, they will be swept off their feet and fall _prone_ . This attack _cannot_ target anything that’s _not_ bipedal, and it _cannot_ knock anything _larger_ than the adventurer, such as an ogre, giant, etc. _prone_ . 

Players should examine which attack methods they can use with each pole weapon (for example, a halberd can be used in four ways: _thrust_ , _cut_ , _stab_ , and _sweep_ ) and arm themselves accordingly. For those with _multiple_ attack methods, you must declare _which_ attack method you will use each round. 

Pole weapons have the same basic idea of attacking the enemy from a distance, but their functions are specialized in various ways. The ways to use these pole weapons are as follows. 

Below are some typical pole weapons and how to use them. 

## **Thrust** 

Its tip is sharply pointed. You can treat these the same as spears. Please use _spear/2H_ for attack power modifiers, strike power modifiers, critical target, etc. It’s also possible to _charge_ . 

## **Pole Ax** 

This is shaped like a combination of an ax and a spear. It can be used in two ways: _thrust_ and _cut_ . 

## **Halberd** 

**Cut** 

The halberd is an advanced version of the pole ax, and is shaped like a combination of an ax and a spear, with the other side of the ax also shaped like a hook. It’s the most sophisticated pole weapon, and can be used to _thrust_ , _cut_ , _stab_ , and _sweep_ . 

It has an ax-like blade. Treat its scores as _ax/2H_ . Enables _mow down_ attacks. **Stab** 

It has a tip like a pickax. Its scores and handling are based on _warhammer/2H_ . **Beat** 

It has a hammer-like tip. Please use the same scores and handling as _flail/2H_ . It _cannot_ be used to declare _mercy_ . **Sweep** 

## **Lucerne Hammer** 

The lucerne hammer has a similar shape to a halberd, but the tip of the spear is longer than a halberd, and the striking part is a hammer rather than an ax. On the other side, there’s a hookshaped protrusion. This weapon can be used to _thrust_ , _cut_ and _beat_ . 

It allows you to sweep your opponent by hooking their foot. For this attack, the attack power modifier is ±0, and the strike power is 0 (the _modifier_ is _not_ 0. The strike power _itself_ is 0-- this attack method is not suitable for dealing damage), and there are _no_ criticals. 

**Glaive** 

The glaive is a weapon with a knifelike blade attached to the end of a long handle. This weapon can be used in two ways: _thrust_ and _cut_ . **Bill** 

If the attack is successful, the opponent suffers damage and at the same time must make a success roll using _adventurer level + dexterity bonus_ ( _evasion points -7_ for monsters) as the baseline score and the _attacker's final_ 

It has a shape similar to a _naginata_ . It can be used to _cut_ . 

Pole weapons cannot reach their full power in tight spaces. The length of a pole weapon is **required strength x 15** centimeters. If you don't have a space with this radius, you _cannot_ use attack methods other than _thrust_ . It would not be a good idea to bring them into underground labyrinths, etc. 

## **Main-gauche/Sword Breaker** 

A **main-gauche** is a dagger held in the left hand (right hand for left-handed adventurers) for parrying. You'll gain a +1 bonus to evasion speed _only_ if your opponent's weapon is a _dagger_ , _rapier_ , or _short sword_ . 

A **sword breaker** is a type of maingauche with serrated blades lined up along the back. It has a similar bonus to evasion speed, and moreover, if used skillfully, can _break_ or _drop_ an opponent's weapon. When you roll 2D for evasion, if you get _double sixes_ , you can _break_ your opponent's weapon. If you roll an _11_ , and you _evade_ your opponent's attack, you can make your opponent _drop_ his or her weapon. Of course, your opponent's weapons are limited to _daggers_ , _rapiers_ , and _short swords_ . 

Main-gauche and sword breaker have the _same_ attack scores as a _dagger_ . When attacking with _both_ hands, you’ll 

still suffer a -2 ／ -4 penalty. Also, if you use it for an attack, you’ll _lose_ the evasion bonus. 

## **Whip, Net, Bola** 

These weapons can perform attacks that **entangle** opponents. If an attack with one of these weapons hits, the evader must make a success roll using _adventurer level + agility bonus_ as the baseline score and _attacker's final score at this time_ as the target score. 

If he or she fails, they’ll be _entangled_ and fall _prone_ . 

Once entangled with an opponent, the weapon is _no longer_ at the attacker's 

269

disposal. If the opponent is of a _larger_ race than him or her, the attacker must _release_ the whip or net. 

Once entangled, an escape check is required _every_ round. Make a success roll using _adventurer level + strength bonus_ ( _attack power -7_ for monsters _)_ as the baseline score, and _attacker's final score when entangling (attack power + 2D roll at that time)_ as the target score. If the entangled target has hands or similar organs, the target score will _decrease_ by 1 each round. While entangled, there is _always_ a -4 penalty evading your opponent's attacks. To escape, you must first _release_ any armaments you’re holding. 

## **Whip** 

If the attack hits and the opponent is _not_ entangled, the whip will _return_ to the attacker's hand. The attacker may _choose_ , even if it _hits_ , to return the whip to his or her hand _instead_ of letting it entangle the opponent. At this time, roll 2D, and it'll _only_ entangle the opponent if you roll _double ones_ . **Net** 

Even if this hits, it _cannot_ deal damage. It’s used in melee, but you can also use it by throwing it. However, its range is limited to 5 meters. **Bola** 

This is a throwing weapon. 

## **Shield Attack** 

Adventurers may use shields for attacks. However, in this case, the shield's evasion speed modifier _cannot_ be added to evasion speed. The shield's attack power modifier must be used _as is_ . In other words, a _small_ shield is **±0** and a _large_ shield is **-1** . However, large shields with _magical power of +1 or greater_ will _no longer_ have this -1 modifier. 

The strike power is the same as the shield’s required strength (strike power modifier ±0), and the critical target is 12. Since you’re probably _not_ holding it in your dominant hand, you’ll still suffer a - 2/-4 penalty. Even if it’s a magic shield, the _only_ bonus damage you get is the 

usual ( _fighter/thief skill level + strength bonus_ ). 

If you’re a _fighter_ , you can also perform a shield attack as a _ram_ . In this case, the adventurer _cannot_ use the weapon in their _dominant_ hand, but there will be _no_ penalty for using the _opposite_ hand. You can use the shield's strike power for a damage check while at the same time making a _prone_ check. Please refer to the process for _ram_ (see p. 266). 

## **Cranequin Crossbow** 

A hoist is attached to a crossbow so that the string can be tightened strongly with a small amount of force. However, it takes time to wind up, so there are significant restrictions on continuous firing. 

If bonus damage calculation is based on optional rules ( _16.3_ ), then it’s **skill level + {required strength ÷ 3 (rounded down)}** . 

It takes _three_ rounds to wind up a cranequin crossbow. If you’ve tightened the strings and prepared them in advance, you can fire the first shot _immediately_ , but after that, you’ll _only_ be able to fire _once_ every _four_ rounds. 

## **Ballista** 

A general term for extremely large wind-up crossbows that are installed on castles, ships, etc. It’s not carried or used by characters. Hoisting requires multiple people. With 2~3 characters, when the _total_ strength of the characters reaches the _required strength_ , it can be wound up in _three_ rounds. Once hoisted, shooting is done by _one_ person. Both the fighter and ranger skills can be used to attack (i.e. attack power is the archer's _fighter/ranger skill level + dexterity bonus_ ). The thief skill does _not_ allow for ballista shooting. 

When using a ballista, the strike power can often _exceed_ 50, but even in that case, the damage check should _still_ be made on column 50 of the _Rating Table_ . Even so, the bonus damage will be **shooter's skill level + (ballista's** 

**required strength ÷ 3)** , so a ballista with a _greater_ required strength will be _more_ powerful. 

## **Lance** 

A **lance** is a long weapon used by cavalry. It's held under your arm with one hand. It _must_ be used on horseback and can _only_ be used in a _charge (lance charge)_ . 

When performing a lance charge, the movement distance must be within _lance length (required strength x 15 cm) x 2_ _**and** 90 meters (horse's full movement distance)_ . During this time, any attacks made against the horse or mounted adventurer _must_ be evaded with a -4 penalty. Also, even if the horse is a war horse, you _cannot_ make the horse itself attack. 

If lance charge hits, add +10 to strike power (since it's a charge) during the damage check. Furthermore, the attacker gets +2 to _damage_ (that's the horse's monster level!). 

If you’re brought into melee while using a lance, you can evade as usual, but you _cannot_ attack. 

If you _both_ have lances, or if your opponent is using a _spear_ or a _pike_ , follow the rules for _charging_ each other. 

In the case of lance charge, it is also possible to _run straight through_ without entering an engagement. However, keep in mind that there _is_ a possibility that you’ll face a counterattack from your opponent each time you use a lance charge. 

## **Boomerang** 

When this weapon is thrown at an enemy and misses, it **returns to the user's hand** at the _end_ of the round. However, it will _not_ return if you roll _double ones_ on your hit check or if the boomerang hits the enemy. 

The boomerang _cannot_ be used if there's not enough _space_ for the boomerang to follow an arc. You should also consider carefully before using it when there are allies nearby. 

270

## **Shotel** 

This weapon has a large S-shaped curve at the tip of the blade. Therefore, you can attack **through** an enemy's shield. When attacking a shield-wielding enemy with a shotel, you can _ignore_ the shield's evasion bonus (even if it's a _magic_ shield!). 

weapon, _nor_ can you make _two_ attacks, it _can_ be useful when your weapon is knocked away. However, it becomes a _hindrance_ when dealing with ancient magic and spirit magic. It’ll also be a hindrance to the thief skill's _lockpicking_ and _remove trap_ . 

roll. The target score is the final score from _when the attack hit_ . If he or she fails, they’ll fall _unconscious_ and will not wake up for _2D x 10 minutes_ . Normal damage is dealt regardless of success or failure. 

The attacked opponent gains a +4 bonus to his or her resistance roll if he or she is wearing _metal armor._ 

## **Sap (Blackjack)** 

## **Cestus** 

These are **combat gloves** . This weapon allows you to use your hands _freely_ while it’s equipped. After putting on a cestus, you can _also_ hold a weapon in your hand. Although you _cannot_ add the strike power of a cestus to _another_ 

This weapon has the potential to cause fae, youma, or animals of human size or smaller to **lose consciousness** when you attack them unnoticed from behind. 

When struck by such an attack, the target must make a life force resistance 

## **Garrote** 

**Garrotes** may only be used during a _grapple_ . They're completely _ineffective_ against things that _don’t breathe_ , are _huge_ , or wear _metal armor_ . For detailed rules, see _Grapple_ (see p. 265). 

**==> picture [596 x 440] intentionally omitted <==**

271