# 17.2 Lost Spells

## **Changes to Magic Procedure** 

## **17.1** 

You can _unify_ the rules of magic, allowing for a more integrated approach to casting. However, in this case, the master's work becomes _quite_ complicated. 

the caster rolls _double ones_ , the magic will _fail completely_ and have _no_ effect. 

## **Monster Magic Power** 

Monster magic power is predetermined for each monster. 

The magic procedure is resolved the same way regardless of whether a _monster_ or an _adventurer_ is casting the spell. In other words, you roll 2D and add it to your _magic power_ . Using that as the target score, everyone on the side on which it was cast must attempt a mental power resistance roll. If they fail, the magic will be cast with its full effect. If they succeed, the magic will _not_ be cast or its effect will be _reduced_ . However, if 

## **Monster Resistance** 

The baseline score for a monster's mental power resistance roll is _resistance points -7 (written in parentheses)_ . However, a monster's resistance roll _fails_ if there’s a _tie_ . The final score must _exceed_ the final score from when the character cast the spell. This is an exception to the rule in order to maintain numerical balance. Please be careful. 

## **Lost Spells** 

## **17.2** 

Not all ancient magic spells are taught in the sorcerers’ guild. Of course, no matter how high-level a sorcerer is, they don't know _every_ spell. There are spells known only to a limited number of sorcerers, and also spells that were lost with the fall of the ancient kingdom. These are called **lost spells** . 

## **2. Learn From a Sorcerer** 

## **Who Knows Lost Spell** 

There are some sorcerers who, as a result of years of hard work or through sheer luck, have acquired lost spells. You can learn lost spells by learning from these sorcerers. 

However, even if you learn a lost spell, you cannot _use_ it unless your sorcerer skill is of the _spell's level or greater._ If your skill level is insufficient, you must wait until your skill level increases before you can use it. 

Lost spells cannot be used simply by increasing your sorcerer skill level. You must know of a spell’s existence and learn how to use it. 

The learning methods are as follows. 

Which spells are considered _lost_ is entirely up to the game master's choice. As a guideline, _Table 17-1: Lost Spells_ is included, and the individual detail section of those spells also says _lost_ under their type. However, if the game master wishes, spells _not_ on the list may be designated as _lost spells_ , and some or even _all_ of the spells on the list may be designated as _general spells_ . 

## **1. Obtain Spellbooks or** 

## **Scrolls Containing Lost Spell** 

Spellbooks and scrolls containing lost spells can be found as treasure in the ruins of the ancient kingdom, and by studying them, you can learn lost spells. 

## **Example:** 

A shaman is attacked by three skeletons. He decides to expand the spirit magic _Fire Bolt_ by triple and cast it on each of them. His magic power is 4. His 2D roll is 8. The target score is 8 + 4 = _12_ , so the skeletons attempt to resist. A skeleton's resistance score due to their mental power is 9 (2), so the baseline score for the resistance roll is **2** . A monster will _fail_ to resist if the final scores are _tied_ , so a skeleton needs _11 or greater_ to resist. If the game master rolls the dice three times and gets a 4, a 12, and an 8, then only the _second_ skeleton will be able to reduce the effect of the _Fire Bolt_ . 

**Table 17-1 Lost Spells Table** 

Decrease Weight Increase Weight Bone Servant Create Undead Create Buau Zombie Seal Enchantment Steal Mind Magic Reflection Stun Cloud Wraith Form Dimension Gate Perfect Cancellation 

273