# 17.5 Full Resistance

## **Catalysts Other Than Staves** 

## **17.3** 

Basically, a mage's staff is used as a magic catalyst, but if the game master approves, you may use another object as a magic catalyst. Commonly used ones include **mage’s wands** , **mage’s rings** , **mage’s medals** , etc. In any case, when chanting a spell, you must hold the magic catalyst in at least one hand, and 

cannot hold anything else in that hand at the same time. 

Weapons other than staves (swords are preferred) can also be catalysts, and some sorcerers who call themselves _magic warriors_ use them. 

## **Using Magic Without a Catalyst** 

## **17.4** 

magic _can_ be used without a staff, but it _cannot_ be handled _effectively_ . 

To cast ancient magic, a sorcerer needs a magic catalyst to aid in focus. However, a character with the sorcerer skill might find it quite frustrating if they just dropped their staff and couldn't use their spells anymore. The game master may interpret this to mean that ancient 

Following this interpretation, a sorcerer _can_ cast spells without a catalyst. However, in this case, he or she will 

## **Full Resistance** 

## **17.5** 

When a character anticipates danger or wants to resist magic cast by an opponent at all costs, they may be able to take the **full resistance** action during the round. 

Character movement is limited to within 3 meters. 

The other is that you must be aware of the _direction_ in which the danger is coming from. You must be _fully aware_ of the enemy, etc. that’s trying to cast spells on you. At this time, it doesn't matter if you only vaguely define the direction (such as “The area around that trap door looks suspicious”). Also, if you predict danger from multiple locations, there’s no problem so long as you’re fully aware of _each_ . However, if the game master feels that it is _impossible_ to anticipate and keep an eye on dangers from so many different directions ("I think the statue in front of me, the mural on the right, 

On any round you choose _full resistance_ , your character gains a +4 bonus to resistance rolls. However, there _are_ some restrictions to taking this action. 

One is that the character _cannot_ take any other actions (wielding a weapon, casting spells, etc.) during that round. Moreover, if you’re hit by a physical attack, you'll suffer a -4 penalty to evasion. Also, the character's movement method can _only_ be _stand still_ . 

However, rarely do people use shields or gauntlets as catalysts. This is because these are often ill-suited for the complex movements required by ancient magic spells. As a result of research, it is said that objects that do not inhibit finger movement at all, or single, homogeneous, rod-shaped objects are suitable for ancient magic. 

suffer a -2 penalty to the spell's final score, and furthermore, the spell will fail _completely_ if the 2D roll made to determine the final score is not only _double ones_ , but _also_ _**3 or 4**_ . 

behind the curtain on the left, as well as the ceiling, behind me, _and_ under my feet are _all_ dangerous, so I'll full resist anything that might come from those places!"), he or she can add restrictions or refuse the player's declaration. If you try to pay attention to what's behind you, which you can't see, you _usually_ neglect what's in front of you. 

When danger comes from an _unexpected_ direction or location, you receive _no_ bonus to resistance rolls and must make a check normally. 

274