# 18.2 Guidelines for Adventurer Age and Ability Score Changes

## **18.1** 

## **Rules for Awarding Greater Experience Points** 

As your character's level increases and you take on more difficult adventures, you may find that 1000 experience points for completing a mission is not enough. 1000 experience points each is a good score for enjoying _Sword World RPG_ for a long time, but some people may want to reach higher levels more easily. 

In such cases, you can **increase** the experience points for accomplishing missions as follows. 

First, the game master must determine what are the most _severe_ obstacles to accomplishing the mission. 

Typically, it'll probably be the strongest monster, but in some cases it may be a high _difficulty_ trap. Then, check its _level_ . If it's a monster, this is its _monster level_ , and if it's a trap, it's its _difficulty_ . 

This most severe obstacle has the condition that it _must be resolved by rolling the dice, regardless of the character's efforts_ . For example, in a scenario where you negotiate with a dragon, which is a 10th level monster, and get it to give you an item, you don't have to _fight_ the dragon and you don't need to _roll_ any dice. 

Therefore, this dragon is _not_ an obstacle to consider here. If you _have_ to fight the dragon regardless of whether the negotiations are successful or not, the dragon _will_ become an obstacle. 

Then multiply that _maximum obstacle level_ by 500. If a 10th level monster is your biggest obstacle, that’s 10 x 500 = **5000** . These are the experience points for accomplishing the mission. 

Even when using this method, if you _cannot_ accomplish the mission, you’ll _still_ only receive 500 experience points. 

## **18.2** 

## **Guidelines for Adventurer Age and Ability Score Changes** 

As humans get older, their physical abilities decline. On the other hand, when you're a child, you don't have that much ability. Normally, adventurers are at an age when they can fully demonstrate their ability, from just after adulthood to the middle of their lives, but they may be aged or made younger unnaturally by magic, poison, etc. Also, if you’re a game master, you may need to prepare an old man or a young boy for an NPC. 

Here, we provide guidelines regarding the **ability scores** of characters of such unique **ages** . 

In the case of humans, assume the ability scores of prime age (from around 15~50 years old) to be 1, and the ability scores of each age are as shown in _Table 18-1: Age-Based Ability Score Modification Table._ This is just a guideline, and game masters may set individual differences. Some may mature 

early and quickly develop a fine physique. If you constantly train your body, it’s also possible to halt aging to some extent. 

In the case of non-human races, they are considered equal to humans _until_ they reach adulthood. 

After reaching adulthood (ability scores decrease after the age of 50), please modify as follows. 

## **Elves** 

**Table 18-1: Age-Based Ability Score Modification Table** 

|Age|Modifcation|
|---|---|
|3 – 5|All ability scores reduced by 1/6|
|6 – 8|All ability scores reduced by 2/6|
|9 – 10|All ability scores reduced by 3/6|
|11 – 12|All ability scores reduced by 4/6|
|13 – 14|All ability scores reduced by 5/6|
|51 – 60|All ability scores reduced to 5/6, except intelligence and mental power remain the same|
|61 – 70|All ability scores reduced to 4/6, except intelligence and mental power remain the same|
|71 – 80|All ability scores reduced to 3/6, except intelligence and mental power remain the same|
|81 – 90|All ability scores reduced to 2/6, except intelligence and mental power remain the same|
|91+|All ability scores reduced to 1/6, except intelligence and mental power remain the same|



Aging is not considered. 

## **Dwarves, Grassrunners, Half-Elves** 

Aging begins at the age of 100. Divide the age by half and apply it to the human table. 

276