Composing and Decomposing Data 

86 

## **Self-Similarity** 

Recursion is the root of computation since it trades description for time.—Alan Perlis, Epigrams in Programming[60] 

In Arrays and Destructuring Arguments, we worked with the basic idea that putting an array together with a literal array expression was the reverse or opposite of taking it apart with a destructuring assignment. 

We saw that the basic idea that putting an array together with a literal array expression was the reverse or opposite of taking it apart with a destructuring assignment. 

Let’s be more specific. Some data structures, like lists, can obviously be seen as a collection of items. Some are empty, some have three items, some forty-two, some contain numbers, some contain strings, some a mixture of elements, there are all kinds of lists. 

But we can also define a list by describing a rule for building lists. One of the simplest, and longeststanding in computer science, is to say that a list is: 

1. Empty, or; 

2. Consists of an element concatenated with a list . 

Let’s convert our rules to array literals. The first rule is simple: [] is a list. How about the second rule? We can express that using a spread. Given an element e and a list list, [e, ...list] is a list. We can test this manually by building up a list: 

[] _//=> []_ ["baz", ...[]] _//=> ["baz"]_ ["bar", ...["baz"]] _//=> ["bar","baz"]_ ["foo", ...["bar", "baz"]] _//=> ["foo","bar","baz"]_ 

Thanks to the parallel between array literals + spreads with destructuring + rests, we can also use the same rules to decompose lists: 

60http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/perlis-alan/quotes.html 


87 

Composing and Decomposing Data 

**const** [first, ...rest] = []; first _//=> undefined_ rest _//=> []:_ **const** [first, ...rest] = ["foo"]; first _//=> "foo"_ rest _//=> []_ **const** [first, ...rest] = ["foo", "bar"]; first _//=> "foo"_ rest _//=> ["bar"]_ **const** [first, ...rest] = ["foo", "bar", "baz"]; first _//=> "foo"_ rest _//=> ["bar","baz"]_ 

For the purpose of this exploration, we will presume the following:[61] 

**const** isEmpty = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ; 

isEmpty([]) _//=> true_ isEmpty([0]) _//=> false_ isEmpty([[]]) _//=> false_ 

Armed with our definition of an empty list and with what we’ve already learned, we can build a great many functions that operate on arrays. We know that we can get the length of an array using 

> 61 Well, actually, this does not work for arrays that contain undefined as a value, but we are not going to see that in our examples. A more robust implementation would be (array) => array.length === 0, but we are doing backflips to keep this within a very small and contrived playground. 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

88 

its .length. But as an exercise, how would we write a length function using just what we have already? 

First, we pick what we call a _terminal case_ . What is the length of an empty array? 0. So let’s start our function with the observation that if an array is empty, the length is 0: 

**const** length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? 0 : _// ???_ 

We need something for when the array isn’t empty. If an array is not empty, and we break it into two pieces, first and rest, the length of our array is going to be length(first) + length(rest). Well, the length of first is 1, there’s just one element at the front. But we don’t know the length of rest. If only there was a function we could call… Like length! 

**const** length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? 0 : 1 + length(rest); 

Let’s try it! 

length([]) _//=> 0_ length(["foo"]) _//=> 1_ length(["foo", "bar", "baz"]) _//=> 3_ 

Our length function is _recursive_ , it calls itself. This makes sense because our definition of a list is recursive, and if a list is self-similar, it is natural to create an algorithm that is also self-similar. 

## **linear recursion** 

“Recursion” sometimes seems like an elaborate party trick. There’s even a joke about this: 

When promising students are trying to choose between pure mathematics and applied engineering, they are given a two-part aptitude test. In the first part, they are led to a laboratory bench and told to follow the instructions printed on the card. They find a bunsen burner, a sparker, a tap, an empty beaker, a stand, and a card with the instructions “boil water.” 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

89 

Of course, all the students know what to do: They fill the beaker with water, place the stand on the burner and the beaker on the stand, then they turn the burner on and use the sparker to ignite the flame. After a bit the water boils, and they turn off the burner and are lead to a second bench. 

Once again, there is a card that reads, “boil water.” But this time, the beaker is on the stand over the burner, as left behind by the previous student. The engineers light the burner immediately. Whereas the mathematicians take the beaker off the stand and empty it, thus reducing the situation to a problem they have already solved. 

There is more to recursive solutions that simply functions that invoke themselves. Recursive algorithms follow the “divide and conquer” strategy for solving a problem: 

1. Divide the problem into smaller problems 

2. If a smaller problem is solvable, solve the small problem 

3. If a smaller problem is not solvable, divide and conquer that problem 

4. When all small problems have been solved, compose the solutions into one big solution 

The big elements of divide and conquer are a method for decomposing a problem into smaller problems, a test for the smallest possible problem, and a means of putting the pieces back together. Our solutions are a little simpler in that we don’t really break a problem down into multiple pieces, we break a piece off the problem that may or may not be solvable, and solve that before sticking it onto a solution for the rest of the problem. 

This simpler form of “divide and conquer” is called _linear recursion_ . It’s very useful and simple to understand. Let’s take another example. Sometimes we want to _flatten_ an array, that is, an array of arrays needs to be turned into one array of elements that aren’t arrays.[62] 

We already know how to divide arrays into smaller pieces. How do we decide whether a smaller problem is solvable? We need a test for the terminal case. Happily, there is something along these lines provided for us: 

Array.isArray("foo") 

- _//=> false_ 

Array.isArray(["foo"]) 

- _//=> true_ 

The usual “terminal case” will be that flattening an empty array will produce an empty array. The next terminal case is that if an element isn’t an array, we don’t flatten it, and can put it together with the rest of our solution directly. Whereas if an element is an array, we’ll flatten it and put it together with the rest of our solution. 

So our first cut at a flatten function will look like this: 

> 62 flatten is a very simple unfold, a function that takes a seed value and turns it into an array. Unfolds can be thought of a “path” through a data structure, and flattening a tree is equivalent to a depth-first traverse. 


90 

Composing and Decomposing Data 

**const** flatten = ([first, ...rest]) => { **if** (first === **undefined** ) { **return** []; } **else if** (!Array.isArray(first)) { **return** [first, ...flatten(rest)]; } **else** { **return** [...flatten(first), ...flatten(rest)]; } } flatten(["foo", [3, 4, []]]) _//=> ["foo",3,4]_ 

Once again, the solution directly displays the important elements: Dividing a problem into subproblems, detecting terminal cases, solving the terminal cases, and composing a solution from the solved portions. 

## **mapping** 

Another common problem is applying a function to every element of an array. JavaScript has a built-in function for this, but let’s write our own using linear recursion. 

If we want to square each number in a list, we could write: 

**const** squareAll = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? [] : [first * first, ...squareAll(rest)\ ]; squareAll([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

And if we wanted to “truthify” each element in a list, we could write: 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

91 

**const** truthyAll = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** 

? [] : [!!first, ...truthyAll(rest)]; 

truthyAll([ **null** , **true** , 25, **false** , "foo"]) _//=> [false,true,true,false,true]_ 

This specific case of linear recursion is called “mapping,” and it is not necessary to constantly write out the same pattern again and again. Functions can take functions as arguments, so let’s “extract” the thing to do to each element and separate it from the business of taking an array apart, doing the thing, and putting the array back together. 

Given the signature: 

**const** mapWith = (fn, array) => _// ..._ 

We can write it out using a ternary operator. Even in this small function, we can identify the terminal condition, the piece being broken off, and recomposing the solution. 

**const** mapWith = (fn, [first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? [] : [fn(first), ...mapWith(fn, rest)]; mapWith((x) => x * x, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

mapWith((x) => !!x, [ **null** , **true** , 25, **false** , "foo"]) _//=> [false,true,true,false,true]_ 

## **folding** 

With the exception of the length example at the beginning, our examples so far all involve rebuilding a solution using spreads. But they needn’t. A function to compute the sum of the squares of a list of numbers might look like this: 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

92 

**const** sumSquares = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** 

? 0 : first * first + sumSquares(rest); 

sumSquares([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> 55_ 

There are two differences between sumSquares and our maps above: 

1. Given the terminal case of an empty list, we return a 0 instead of an empty list, and; 

2. We catenate the square of each element to the result of applying sumSquares to the rest of the elements. 

Let’s rewrite mapWith so that we can use it to sum squares. 

**const** foldWith = (fn, terminalValue, [first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? terminalValue : fn(first, foldWith(fn, terminalValue, rest)); 

And now we supply a function that does slightly more than our mapping functions: 

foldWith((number, rest) => number * number + rest, 0, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> 55_ 

Our foldWith function is a generalization of our mapWith function. We can represent a map as a fold, we just need to supply the array rebuilding code: 

**const** squareAll = (array) => foldWith((first, rest) => [first * first, ...rest],\ [], array); squareAll([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

And if we like, we can write mapWith using foldWith: 


93 

Composing and Decomposing Data 

**const** mapWith = (fn, array) => foldWith((first, rest) => [fn(first), ...rest], [\ ], array), squareAll = (array) => mapWith((x) => x * x, array); 

squareAll([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

And to return to our first example, our version of length can be written as a fold: 

**const** length = (array) => foldWith((first, rest) => 1 + rest, 0, array); 

length([1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> 5_ 

## **summary** 

Linear recursion is a basic building block of algorithms. Its basic form parallels the way linear data structures like lists are constructed: This helps make it understandable. Its specialized cases of mapping and folding are especially useful and can be used to build other functions. And finally, while folding is a special case of linear recursion, mapping is a special case of folding.

Composing and Decomposing Data 

94 

## **Tail Calls (and Default Arguments)** 

The mapWith and foldWith functions we wrote in Self-Similarity are useful for illustrating the basic principles behind using recursion to work with self-similar data structures, but they are not “production-ready” implementations. One of the reasons they are not production-ready is that they consume memory proportional to the size of the array being folded. 

Let’s look at how. Here’s our extremely simple mapWith function again: 

**const** mapWith = (fn, [first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? [] : [fn(first), ...mapWith(fn, rest)]; mapWith((x) => x * x, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

Let’s step through its execution. First, mapWith((x) => x * x, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) is invoked. first is not undefined, so it evaluates [fn(first), …mapWith(fn, rest)]. To do that, it has to evaluate fn(first) and mapWith(fn, rest), then evaluate [fn(first), ...mapWith(fn, rest)]. 

This is roughly equivalent to writing: 

**const** mapWith = **function** (fn, [first, ...rest]) { **if** (first === **undefined** ) { **return** []; } **else** { **const** _temp1 = fn(first), _temp2 = mapWith(fn, rest), _temp3 = [_temp1, ..._temp2]; **return** _temp3; } } 

Note that while evaluating mapWith(fn, rest), JavaScript must retain the value first or fn(first), plus some housekeeping information so it remembers what to do with mapWith(fn, rest) when it has a result. JavaScript cannot throw first away. So we know that JavaScript is going to hang on to 1. 

Next, JavaScript invokes mapWith(fn, rest), which is semantically equivalent to mapWith((x) => x * x, [2, 3, 4, 5]). And the same thing happens: JavaScript has to hang on to 2 (or 4, or both, 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

95 

depending on the implementation), plus some housekeeping information so it remembers what to do with that value, while it calls the equivalent of mapWith((x) => x * x, [3, 4, 5]). 

This keeps on happening, so that JavaScript collects the values 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5 plus housekeeping information by the time it calls mapWith((x) => x * x, []). It can start assembling the resulting array and start discarding the information it is saving. 

That information is saved on a _call stack_ , and it is quite expensive. Furthermore, doubling the length of an array will double the amount of space we need on the stack, plus double all the work required to set up and tear down the housekeeping data for each call (these are called _call frames_ , and they include the place where the function was called, an environment, and so on). 

In practice, using a method like this with more than about 50 items in an array may cause some implementations to run very slow, run out of memory and freeze, or cause an error. 

mapWith((x) => x * x, [ 

0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99, 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 35, 36, 37, 38, 39, 40, 41, 42, 43, 44, 45, 46, 47, 48, 49, 50, 51, 52, 53, 54, 55, 56, 57, 58, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71, 72, 73, 74, 75, 76, 77, 78, 79, 80, 81, 82, 83, 84, 85, 86, 87, 88, 89, 90, 91, 92, 93, 94, 95, 96, 97, 98, 99 ]) _//=> ???_ 

Is there a better way? Yes. In fact, there are several better ways. Making algorithms faster is a very highly studied field of computer science. The one we’re going to look at here is called _tail-call optimization_ , or “TCO.” 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

96 

## **tail-call optimization** 

A “tail-call” occurs when a function’s last act is to invoke another function, and then return whatever the other function returns. For example, consider the maybe function decorator: 

**const** maybe = (fn) => **function** (...args) { **if** (args.length === 0) { **return** ; } **else** { **for** ( **let** arg **of** args) { **if** (arg == **null** ) **return** ; } **return** fn.apply( **this** , args); } } 

There are three places it returns. The first two don’t return anything, they don’t matter. But the third is fn.apply(this, args). This is a tail-call, because it invokes another function and returns its result. This is interesting, because after sorting out what to supply as arguments (this, args), JavaScript can throw away everything in its current stack frame. It isn’t going to do any more work, so it can throw its existing stack frame away. 

And in fact, it does exactly that: It throws the stack frame away, and does not consume extra memory when making a maybe-wrapped call. This is a very important characteristic of JavaScript: **If a function makes a call in tail position, JavaScript optimizes away the function call overhead and stack space.** 

That is excellent, but one wrapping is not a big deal. When would we really care? Consider this implementation of length: 

**const** length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === **undefined** ? 0 : 1 + length(rest); 

The length function calls itself, but it is not a tail-call, because it returns 1 + length(rest), not length(rest). 

The problem can be stated in such a way that the answer is obvious: length does not call itself in tail position, because it has to do two pieces of work, and while one of them is in the recursive call to length, the other happens after the recursive call. 

The obvious solution? 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

97 

## **converting non-tail-calls to tail-calls** 

The obvious solution is push the 1 + work into the call to length. Here’s our first cut: 

**const** lengthDelaysWork = ([first, ...rest], numberToBeAdded) => first === **undefined** 

? 0 + numberToBeAdded 

: lengthDelaysWork(rest, 1 + numberToBeAdded) 

lengthDelaysWork(["foo", "bar", "baz"], 0) 

_//=> 3_ 

This lengthDelaysWork function calls itself in tail position. The 1 + work is done before calling itself, and by the time it reaches the terminal position, it has the answer. Now that we’ve seen how it works, we can clean up the 0 + numberToBeAdded business. But while we’re doing that, it’s annoying to remember to call it with a zero. Let’s fix that: 

**const** lengthDelaysWork = ([first, ...rest], numberToBeAdded) => first === **undefined** 

? numberToBeAdded : lengthDelaysWork(rest, 1 + numberToBeAdded) 

**const** length = (n) => lengthDelaysWork(n, 0); 

Or we could use partial application: 

**const** callLast = (fn, ...args) => (...remainingArgs) => fn(...remainingArgs, ...args); 

**const** length = callLast(lengthDelaysWork, 0); 

length(["foo", "bar", "baz"]) _//=> 3_ 

This version of length calls uses lengthDelaysWork, and JavaScript optimizes that not to take up memory proportional to the length of the string. We can use this technique with mapWith: 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

98 

**const** mapWithDelaysWork = (fn, [first, ...rest], prepend) => 

first === **undefined** 

- ? prepend 

- : mapWithDelaysWork(fn, rest, [...prepend, fn(first)]); 

**const** mapWith = callLast(mapWithDelaysWork, []); 

mapWith((x) => x * x, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

We can use it with ridiculously large arrays: 

mapWith((x) => x * x, [ 

|0,|1,|2,|3,|4,|5,|6,|7,|8,|9,|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|10,|11,|12,|13,|14,|15,|16,|17,|18,|19,|
|20,|21,|22,|23,|24,|25,|26,|27,|28,|29,|
|30,|31,|32,|33,|34,|35,|36,|37,|38,|39,|
|40,|41,|42,|43,|44,|45,|46,|47,|48,|49,|
|50,|51,|52,|53,|54,|55,|56,|57,|58,|59,|
|60,|61,|62,|63,|64,|65,|66,|67,|68,|69,|
|70,|71,|72,|73,|74,|75,|76,|77,|78,|79,|
|80,|81,|82,|83,|84,|85,|86,|87,|88,|89,|
|90,|91,|92,|93,|94,|95,|96,|97,|98,|99,|



_// ..._ 

2980, 2981, 2982, 2983, 2984, 2985, 2986, 2987, 2988, 2989, 2990, 2991, 2992, 2993, 2994, 2995, 2996, 2997, 2998, 2999 ]) 

_//=> [0,1,4,9,16,25,36,49,64,81,100,121,144,169,196, ..._ 

Brilliant! We can map over large arrays without incurring all the memory and performance overhead of non-tail-calls. And this basic transformation from a recursive function that does not make a tail call, into a recursive function that calls itself in tail position, is a bread-and-butter pattern for programmers using a language that incorporates tail-call optimization. 

## **factorials** 

Introductions to recursion often mention calculating factorials: 

In mathematics, the factorial of a non-negative integer n, denoted by n!, is the product of all positive integers less than or equal to n. For example: 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

99 

5! = 5 x 4 x 3 x 2 x 1 = 120. 

The naïve function for calcuating the factorial of a positive integer follows directly from the definition: 

**const** factorial = (n) => n == 1 ? n : n * factorial(n - 1); factorial(1) _//=> 1_ factorial(5) _//=> 120_ 

While this is mathematically elegant, it is computational filigree[63] . 

Once again, it is not tail-recursive, it needs to save the stack with each invocation so that it can take the result returned and compute n * factorial(n - 1). We can do the same conversion, pass in the work to be done: 

**const** factorialWithDelayedWork = (n, work) => n === 1 ? work : factorialWithDelayedWork(n - 1, n * work); **const** factorial = (n) => factorialWithDelayedWork(n, 1); 

Or we could use partial application: 

63https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Filigree 


100 

Composing and Decomposing Data 

**const** callLast = (fn, ...args) => (...remainingArgs) => fn(...remainingArgs, ...args); 

**const** factorial = callLast(factorialWithDelayedWork, 1); 

factorial(1) _//=> 1_ factorial(5) _//=> 120_ 

As before, we wrote a factorialWithDelayedWork function, then used partial application (callLast) to make a factorial function that took just the one argument and supplied the initial work value. 

## **default arguments** 

Our problem is that we can directly write: 

**const** factorial = (n, work) => n === 1 ? work : factorial(n - 1, n * work); factorial(1, 1) _//=> 1_ factorial(5, 1) _//=> 120_ 

But it is hideous to have to always add a 1 parameter, we’d be demanding that everyone using the factorial function know that we are using a tail-recursive implementation. 

What we really want is this: We want to write something like factorial(6), and have JavaScript automatically know that we really mean factorial(6, 1). But when it calls itself, it will call factorial(5, 6) and that will not mean factorial(5, 1). 

JavaScript provides this exact syntax, it’s called a _default argument_ , and it looks like this: 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

101 

**const** factorial = (n, work = 1) => n === 1 ? work : factorial(n - 1, n * work); factorial(1) _//=> 1_ factorial(6) _//=> 720_ 

By writing our parameter list as (n, work = 1) =>, we’re stating that if a second parameter is not provided, work is to be bound to 1. We can do similar things with our other tail-recursive functions: 

**const** length = ([first, ...rest], numberToBeAdded = 0) => first === **undefined** ? numberToBeAdded : length(rest, 1 + numberToBeAdded) length(["foo", "bar", "baz"]) _//=> 3_ **const** mapWith = (fn, [first, ...rest], prepend = []) => first === **undefined** ? prepend : mapWith(fn, rest, [...prepend, fn(first)]); mapWith((x) => x * x, [1, 2, 3, 4, 5]) _//=> [1,4,9,16,25]_ 

Now we don’t need to use two functions. A default argument is concise and readable. 

## **defaults and destructuring** 

We saw earlier that destructuring parameters works the same way as destructuring assignment. Now we learn that we can create a default parameter argument. Can we create a default destructuring assignment? 


Composing and Decomposing Data 

102 

**const** [first, second = "two"] = ["one"]; 

` ` **${** first **}** . **${** second **}** _//=> "one . two"_ 

**const** [first, second = "two"] = ["primus", "secundus"]; 

` ` **${** first **}** . **${** second **}** _//=> "primus . secundus"_ 

How very useful: defaults can be supplied for destructuring assignments, just like defaults for parameters.