# values and identity

xvi 

Prelude: Values and Expressions over Coffee 

## **values and identity** 

In JavaScript, we test whether two values are identical with the === operator, and whether they are not identical with the !== operator: 

2 === 2 _//=> true_ 'hello' !== 'goodbye' _//=> true_ 

How does === work, exactly? Imagine that you’re shown a cup of coffee. And then you’re shown another cup of coffee. Are the two cups “identical?” In JavaScript, there are four possibilities: 

First, sometimes, the cups are of different kinds. One is a demitasse, the other a mug. This corresponds to comparing two things in JavaScript that have different _types_ . For example, the string "2" is not the same thing as the number 2. Strings and numbers are different types, so strings and numbers are never identical: 

2 === '2' _//=> false_ **true** !== 'true' _//=> true_ 

Second, sometimes, the cups are of the same type–perhaps two espresso cups–but they have different contents. One holds a single, one a double. This corresponds to comparing two JavaScript values that have the same type but different “content.” For example, the number 5 is not the same thing as the number 2. 

**true** === **false** _//=> false_ 2 !== 5 _//=> true_ 'two' === 'five' _//=> false_ 

What if the cups are of the same type _and_ the contents are the same? Well, JavaScript’s third and fourth possibilities cover that.

xvii 

Prelude: Values and Expressions over Coffee 

## **value types** 

Third, some types of cups have no distinguishing marks on them. If they are the same kind of cup, and they hold the same contents, we have no way to tell the difference between them. This is the case with the strings, numbers, and booleans we have seen so far. 

- 2 + 2 === 4 _//=> true_ 

- (2 + 2 === 4) === (2 !== 5) _//=> true_ 

Note well what is happening with these examples: Even when we obtain a string, number, or boolean as the result of evaluating an expression, it is identical to another value of the same type with the same “content.” Strings, numbers, and booleans are examples of what JavaScript calls “value” or “primitive” types. We’ll use both terms interchangeably. 

We haven’t encountered the fourth possibility yet. Stretching the metaphor somewhat, some types of cups have a serial number on the bottom. So even if you have two cups of the same type, and their contents are the same, you can still distinguish between them. 

**==> picture [288 x 217] intentionally omitted <==**

**Cafe Macchiato is also a fine drink, especially when following up on the fortunes of the Azzurri or the standings in the Giro d’Italia** 

## **reference types** 

So what kinds of values might be the same type and have the same contents, but not be considered identical to JavaScript? Let’s meet a data structure that is very common in contemporary programming languages, the _Array_ (other languages sometimes call it a List or a Vector).

xviii 

Prelude: Values and Expressions over Coffee 

An array looks like this: [1, 2, 3]. This is an expression, and you can combine [] with other expressions. Go wild with things like: 

[2-1, 2, 2+1] [1, 1+1, 1+1+1] 

Notice that you are always generating arrays with the same contents. But are they identical the same way that every value of 42 is identical to every other value of 42? Try these for yourself: 

[2-1, 2, 2+1] === [1,2,3] [1,2,3] === [1, 2, 3] [1, 2, 3] === [1, 2, 3] 

How about that! When you type [1, 2, 3] or any of its variations, you are typing an expression that generates its own _unique_ array that is not identical to any other array, even if that other array also looks like [1, 2, 3]. It’s as if JavaScript is generating new cups of coffee with serial numbers on the bottom. 

They look the same, but if you examine them with ===, you see that they are different. Every time you evaluate an expression (including typing something in) to create an array, you’re creating a new, distinct value even if it _appears_ to be the same as some other array value. As we’ll see, this is true of many other kinds of values, including _functions_ , the main subject of this book.