# Naming Functions

The first sip: Basic Functions 

39 

## **Naming Functions** 

Let’s get right to it. This code does _not_ name a function: 

**const** repeat = (str) => str + str 

It doesn’t name the function “repeat” for the same reason that const answer = 42 doesn’t name the number 42. This syntax binds an anonymous function to a name in an environment, but the function itself remains anonymous. 

## **the function keyword** 

JavaScript _does_ have a syntax for naming a function, we use the function keyword. Until ECMAScript 2015 was created, function was the usual syntax for writing functions. 

Here’s our repeat function written using a “fat arrow” 

(str) => str + str 

And here’s (almost) the exact same function written using the function keyword: 

**function** (str) { **return** str + str } 

Let’s look at the obvious differences: 

1. We introduce a function with the function keyword. 

2. Something else we’re about to discuss is optional. 

3. We have arguments in parentheses, just like fat arrow functions. 

4. We do not have a fat arrow, we go directly to the body. 

5. We always use a block, we cannot write function (str) str + str. This means that if we want our functions to return a value, we always need to use the return keyword 

If we leave out the “something optional” that comes after the function keyword, we can translate all of the fat arrow functions that we’ve seen into function keyword functions, e.g. 

(n) => (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236 

Can be written as:

40 

The first sip: Basic Functions 

**function** (n) { **return** (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236; } 

This still does not _name_ a function, but as we noted above, functions written with the function keyword have an optional “something else.” Could that “something else” name a function? Yes, of course.[33] 

Here are our example functions written with names: 

**const** repeat = **function** repeat (str) { **return** str + str; }; **const** fib = **function** fib (n) { **return** (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236; }; 

Placing a name between the function keyword and the argument list names the function. Confusingly, the name of the function is not exactly the same thing as the name we may choose to bind to the value of the function. For example, we can write: 

**const double** = **function** repeat (str) { **return** str + str; } 

In this expression, double is the name in the environment, but repeat is the function’s actual name. This is a _named function expression_ . That may seem confusing, but think of the binding names as properties of the environment, not of the function. While the name of the function is a property of the function, not of the environment. 

And indeed the name _is_ a property: 

**double** .name 

_//=> 'repeat'_ 

In this book we are not examining JavaScript’s tooling such as debuggers baked into browsers, but we will note that when you are navigating call stacks in all modern tools, the function’s binding name is ignored but its actual name is displayed, so naming functions is very useful even if they don’t get a formal binding, e.g. 

> 33“Yes of course?” Well, in chapter of a book dedicated to naming functions, it is not surprising that feature we mention has something to do with naming functions.

The first sip: Basic Functions 

41 

someBackboneView.on('click', **function** clickHandler () { _//..._ }); 

Now, the function’s actual name has no effect on the environment in which it is used. To whit: 

**const** bindingName = **function** actualName () { _//..._ 

}; bindingName _//=> [Function: actualName]_ 

actualName _//=> ReferenceError: actualName is not defined_ 

So “actualName” isn’t bound in the environment where we use the named function expression. Is it bound anywhere else? Yes it is. Here’s a function that determines whether a positive integer is even or not. We’ll use it in an IIFE so that we don’t have to bind it to a name with const: 

( **function** even (n) { **if** (n === 0) { **return true** } **else return** !even(n - 1) })(5) _//=> false_ ( **function** even (n) { **if** (n === 0) { **return true** } **else return** !even(n - 1) })(2) _//=> true_ 

Clearly, the name even is bound to the function _within the function’s body_ . Is it bound to the function outside of the function’s body?

The first sip: Basic Functions 

42 

even 

_//=> Can't find variable: even_ 

even is bound within the function itself, but not outside it. This is useful for making recursive functions as we see above, and it speaks to the principle of least privilege: If you don’t _need_ to name it anywhere else, you needn’t. 

## **function declarations** 

There is another syntax for naming and/or defining a function. It’s called a _function declaration statement_ , and it looks a lot like a named function expression, only we use it as a statement: 

**function** someName () { 

_// ..._ 

} 

This behaves a _little_ like: 

**const** someName = **function** someName () { 

_// ..._ 

} 

In that it binds a name in the environment to a named function. However, there are two important differences. First, function declarations are _hoisted_ to the top of the function in which they occur. 

Consider this example where we try to use the variable fizzbuzz as a function before we bind a function to it with const: 

( **function** () { 

**return** fizzbuzz(); 

**const** fizzbuzz = **function** fizzbuzz () { **return** "Fizz" + "Buzz"; } })() _//=> undefined is not a function (evaluating 'fizzbuzz()')_ 

We haven’t actually bound a function to the name fizzbuzz before we try to use it, so we get an error. But a function _declaration_ works differently:

43 

The first sip: Basic Functions 

( **function** () { **return** fizzbuzz(); 

**function** fizzbuzz () { **return** "Fizz" + "Buzz"; } })() _//=> 'FizzBuzz'_ 

Although fizzbuzz is declared later in the function, JavaScript behaves as if we’d written: 

( **function** () { **const** fizzbuzz = **function** fizzbuzz () { **return** "Fizz" + "Buzz"; } **return** fizzbuzz(); })() 

The definition of the fizzbuzz is “hoisted” to the top of its enclosing scope (an IIFE in this case). This behaviour is intentional on the part of JavaScript’s design to facilitate a certain style of programming where you put the main logic up front, and the “helper functions” at the bottom. It is not necessary to declare functions in this way in JavaScript, but understanding the syntax and its behaviour (especially the way it differs from const) is essential for working with production code. 

## **function declaration caveats**[34] 

Function declarations are formally only supposed to be made at what we might call the “top level” of a function. Although some JavaScript environments permit the following code, this example is technically illegal and definitely a bad idea: 

34 A number of the caveats discussed here were described in Jyrly Zaytsev’s excellent article Named function expressions demystified.

44 

The first sip: Basic Functions 

( **function** (camelCase) { **return** fizzbuzz(); 

**if** (camelCase) { **function** fizzbuzz () { **return** "Fizz" + "Buzz"; } } **else** { **function** fizzbuzz () { **return** "Fizz" + "Buzz"; } } })( **true** ) _//=> 'FizzBuzz'? Or ERROR: Can't find variable: fizzbuzz?_ 

Function declarations are not supposed to occur inside of blocks. The big trouble with expressions like this is that they may work just fine in your test environment but work a different way in production. Or it may work one way today and a different way when the JavaScript engine is updated, say with a new optimization. 

Another caveat is that a function declaration cannot exist inside of _any_ expression, otherwise it’s a function expression. So this is a function declaration: 

**function** trueDat () { **return true** } 

But this is not: 

( **function** trueDat () { **return true** }) 

The parentheses make this an expression, not a function declaration.