# back on the block

Back to our function. We evaluated this:

19 Experienced JavaScript programmers are aware that there's a fourth way, using a function argument. This was actually the preferred mechanism until void became commonplace.

20 As an exercise for the reader, we suggest you ask your friendly neighbourhood programming language designer or human factors subjectmatter expert to explain why a keyword called void is used to generate an undefined value, instead of calling them both void or both undefined . We have no idea.

```
(() => {})() //=> undefined
```

We said that the function returns the result of evaluating a block , and we said that a block is a (possibly empty) list of JavaScript statements separated by semicolons. 21

Something like: { statement 1 ; statement 2 ; statement 3 ; ... ; statement n }

We haven't discussed these statements . What's a statement?

There are many kinds of JavaScript statements, but the first kind is one we've already met. An expression is a JavaScript statement. Although they aren't very practical, these are valid JavaScript functions, and they return undefined when applied:

```
() => { 2 + 2 } () => { 1 + 1; 2 + 2 }
```

As we saw with commas above, we can rearrange these functions onto multiple lines when we feel its more readable that way:

```
() => { 1 + 1; 2 + 2 }
```

But no matter how we arrange them, a block with one or more expressions still evaluates to undefined :

```
(() => { 2 + 2 })() //=> undefined (() => { 1 + 1; 2 + 2 })() //=> undefined (() => { 1 + 1; 2 + 2 })() //=> undefined
```

As you can see, a block with one expression does not behave like an expression, and a block with more than one expression does not behave like an expression constructed with the comma operator:

21 You can also separate statements with line breaks. Readers who follow internet flame-fests may be aware of something called automatic semicolon insertion. Basically, there's a step where JavaScript looks at your code and follows some rules to guess where you meant to put semicolons in should you leave them out. This feature was originally created as a kind of helpful error-correction. Some programmers argue that since it's part of the language's definition, it's fair game to write code that exploits it, so they deliberately omit any semicolon that JavaScript will insert for them.

```
(() => 2 + 2)() //=> 4 (() => { 2 + 2 })() //=> undefined (() => (1 + 1, 2 + 2))() //=> 4 (() => { 1 + 1; 2 + 2 })() //=> undefined
```

So how do we get a function that evaluates a block to return a value when applied? With the return keyword and any expression:

```
(() => { return 0 })() //=> 0 (() => { return 1 })() //=> 1 (() => { return 'Hello ' + 'World' })() // 'Hello World'
```

The return keyword creates a return statement that immediately terminates the function application and returns the result of evaluating its expression. For example:

```
(() => { 1 + 1; return 2 + 2 })() //=> 4
```