# Ah. I'd Like to Have an Argument, Please. 22

Up to now, we've looked at functions without arguments. We haven't even said what an argument is , only that our functions don't have any.

Most programmers are perfectly familiar with arguments (often called 'parameters'). Secondary school mathematics discusses this. So you know what they are, and I know that you know what they are, but please be patient with the explanation!

Let's make a function with an argument:

```
(room) => {}
```

This function has one argument, room , and an empty body. Here's a function with two arguments and an empty body:

```
(room, board) => {}
```

I'm sure you are perfectly comfortable with the idea that this function has two arguments, room , and board . What does one do with the arguments? Use them in the body, of course. What do you think this is?

```
(diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265
```

It's a function for calculating the circumference of a circle given the diameter. I read that aloud as 'When applied to a value representing the diameter, this function returns the diameter times 3.14159265.'

Remember that to apply a function with no arguments, we wrote (() => {})() . To apply a function with an argument (or arguments), we put the argument (or arguments) within the parentheses, like this:

```
((diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265)(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

You won't be surprised to see how to write and apply a function to two arguments:

22 The Argument Sketch from 'Monty Python's Previous Record' and 'Monty Python's Instant Record Collection'

```
((room, board) => room + board)(800, 150) //=> 950
```