# Closures and Scope

It's time to see how a function within a function works:

```
((x) => (y) => x)(1)(2) //=> 1
```

First off, let's use what we learned above. Given ( some function )( some argument ) , we know that we apply the function to the argument, create an environment, bind the value of the argument to the name, and evaluate the function's expression. So we do that first with this code:

```
((x) => (y) => x)(1) //=> [Function]
```

The environment belonging to the function with signature (x) => ... becomes {x: 1, ...} , and the result of applying the function is another function value. It makes sense that the result value is a function, because the expression for (x) => ... 's body is:

```
(y) => x
```

So now we have a value representing that function. Then we're going to take the value of that function and apply it to the argument 2 , something like this:

```
((y) => x)(2)
```

So we seem to get a new environment {y: 2, ...} . How is the expression x going to be evaluated in that function's environment? There is no x in its environment, it must come from somewhere else.

This, by the way, is one of the great defining characteristics of JavaScript and languages in the same family: Whether they allow things like functions to nest inside each other, and if so, how they handle variables from 'outside' of a function that are referenced inside a function. For example, here's the equivalent code in Ruby:

```
lambda { |x| lambda { |y| x } }[1][2] #=> 1
```

Now let's enjoy a relaxed Allongé before we continue!