# it's always the environment

To understand how closures are evaluated, we need to revisit environments. As we've said before, all functions are associated with an environment. We also hand-waved something when describing our environment. Remember that we said the environment for ((x) => (y) => x)(1) is {x: 1, ...} and that the environment for ((y) => x)(2) is {y: 2, ...} ? Let's fill in the blanks!

The environment for ((y) => x)(2) is actually {y: 2, '..': {x: 1, ...}} . '..' means something like 'parent' or 'enclosure' or 'super-environment.' It's (x) => ... 's environment, because the function (y) => x is within (x) => ... 's body. So whenever a function is applied to arguments, its environment always has a reference to its parent environment.

And now you can guess how we evaluate ((y) => x)(2) in the environment {y: 2, '..': {x: 1, ...}} . The variable x isn't in (y) => ... 's immediate environment, but it is in its parent's environment, so it evaluates to 1 and that's what ((y) => x)(2) returns even though it ended up ignoring its own argument.

(x) => x is called the I Combinator, or the Identity Function . (x) => (y) => x is called the K Combinator, or Kestrel . Some people get so excited by this that they write entire books about them, some are great a , some-how shall I put this-are interesting b if you use Ruby. a http://www.amzn.com/0192801422?tag=raganwald001-20

https://leanpub.com/combinators

```
b
```

Functions can have grandparents too:

```
(x) => (y) => (z) => x + y + z
```

This function does much the same thing as:

```
(x, y, z) => x + y + z
```

Only you call it with (1)(2)(3) instead of (1, 2, 3) . The other big difference is that you can call it with (1) and get a function back that you can later call with (2)(3) .

The first function is the result of currying a the second function. Calling a curried function with only some of its arguments is sometimes called partial application b . Some programming languages automatically curry and partially evaluate functions without the need to manually nest them.

```
a b
```

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Partial_application