# That Constant Coffee Craving

Up to now, all we've really seen are anonymous functions , functions that don't have a name. This feels very different from programming in most other languages, where the focus is on naming functions, methods, and procedures. Naming things is a critical part of programming, but all we've seen so far is how to name arguments.

There are other ways to name things in JavaScript, but before we learn some of those, let's see how to use what we already have to name things. Let's revisit a very simple example:

(diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265 What is this '3.14159265' number? PI 28 , obviously. We'd like to name it so that we can write something like: (diameter) => diameter * PI

In order to bind 3.14159265 to the name PI , we'll need a function with a parameter of PI applied to an argument of 3.14159265 . If we put our function expression in parentheses, we can apply it to the argument of 3.14159265 :

```
((PI) => // ???? )(3.14159265)
```

What do we put inside our new function that binds 3.14159265 to the name PI when evaluated? Our circumference function, of course:

```
((PI) => (diameter) => diameter * PI )(3.14159265)
```

This expression, when evaluated, returns a function that calculates circumferences. That sounds bad, but when we think about it, (diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265 is also an expression, that when evaluated, returns a function that calculates circumferences. All of our 'functions' are expressions. This one has a few more moving parts, that's all. But we can use it just like (diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265 .

Let's test it:

28 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Pi

```
((diameter) => diameter * 3.14159265)(2) //=> 6.2831853 ((PI) => (diameter) => diameter * PI )(3.14159265)(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

That works! We can bind anything we want in an expression by wrapping it in a function that is immediately invoked with the value we want to bind. 29