# are consts also from a shadowy planet?

We just saw that values bound with const use lexical scope, just like values bound with parameters. They are looked up in the environment where they are declared. And we know that functions create environments. Parameters are declared when we create functions, so it makes sense that parameters are bound to environments created when we invoke functions.

But const statements can appear inside blocks, and we saw that blocks can appear inside of other blocks, including function bodies. So where are const variables bound? In the function environment? Or in an environment corresponding to the block?

We can test this by creating another conflict. But instead of binding two different variables to the same name in two different places, we'll bind two different values to the same name, but one environment will be completely enclosed by the other.

Let's start, as above, by doing this with parameters. We'll start with:

```
((PI) => (diameter) => diameter * PI )(3.14159265)
```

And gratuitously wrap it in another IIFE so that we can bind PI to something else:

```
((PI) => ((PI) => (diameter) => diameter * PI )(3.14159265) )(3)
```

This still evaluates to a function that calculates diameters:

```
((PI) => ((PI) => (diameter) => diameter * PI )(3.14159265) )(3)(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

And we can see that our diameter * PI expression uses the binding for PI in the closest parent environment. but one question: Did binding 3.14159265 to PI somehow change the binding in the 'outer' environment? Let's rewrite things slightly differently:

```
((PI) => { ((PI) => {})(3); return (diameter) => diameter * PI; })(3.14159265)
```

Now we bind 3 to PI in an otherwise empty IIFE inside of our IIFE that binds 3.14159265 to PI . Does that binding 'overwrite' the outer one? Will our function return 6 or 6.2831853 ? This is a book, you've already scanned ahead, so you know that the answer is no , the inner binding does not overwrite the outer binding:

```
((PI) => { ((PI) => {})(3); return (diameter) => diameter * PI; })(3.14159265)(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

We say that when we bind a variable using a parameter inside another binding, the inner binding shadows the outer binding. It has effect inside its own scope, but does not affect the binding in the enclosing scope.

So what about const . Does it work the same way?

```
((diameter) => { const PI = 3.14159265; (() => { const PI = 3; })(); return diameter * PI; })(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

Yes, names bound with const shadow enclosing bindings just like parameters. But wait! There's more!!!

Parameters are only bound when we invoke a function. That's why we made all these IIFEs. But const statements can appear inside blocks. What happens when we use a const inside of a block? We'll need a gratuitous block. We've seen if statements, what could be more gratuitous than:

```
if ( true ) { // an immediately invoked block statement (IIBS) } Let's try it: ((diameter) => { const PI = 3; if ( true ) { const PI = 3.14159265; return diameter * PI; } })(2) //=> 6.2831853 ((diameter) => { const PI = 3.14159265; if ( true ) { const PI = 3; } return diameter * PI;
```

```
})(2) //=> 6.2831853
```

Ah! const statements don't just shadow values bound within the environments created by functions, they shadow values bound within environments created by blocks!

This is enormously important. Consider the alternative: What if const could be declared inside of a block, but it always bound the name in the function's scope. In that case, we'd see things like this:

```
((diameter) => { const PI = 3.14159265; if ( true ) { const PI = 3; } return diameter * PI; })(2) //=> would return 6 if const had function scope
```

If const always bound its value to the name defined in the function's environment, placing a const statement inside of a block would merely rebind the existing name, overwriting its old contents. That would be super-confusing. And this code would 'work:'

```
((diameter) => { if ( true ) { const PI = 3.14159265; } return diameter * PI; })(2) //=> would return 6.2831853 if const had function scope
```

Again, confusing. Typically, we want to bind our names as close to where we need them as possible. This design rule is called the Principle of Least Privilege 32 , and it has both quality and security implications. Being able to bind a name inside of a block means that if the name is only needed in the block, we are not 'leaking' its binding to other parts of the code that do not need to interact with it.