# the function keyword

JavaScript does have a syntax for naming a function, we use the function keyword. Until ECMAScript 2015 was created, function was the usual syntax for writing functions.

Here's our repeat function written using a 'fat arrow'

```
(str) => str + str
```

And here's (almost) the exact same function written using the function keyword:

```
function (str) { return str + str }
```

Let's look at the obvious differences:

- We introduce a function with the function keyword.

- Something else we're about to discuss is optional.

- We have arguments in parentheses, just like fat arrow functions.

- We do not have a fat arrow, we go directly to the body.

- We always use a block, we cannot write function (str) str + str . This means that if we want our functions to return a value, we always need to use the return keyword

If we leave out the 'something optional' that comes after the function keyword, we can translate all of the fat arrow functions that we've seen into function keyword functions, e.g.

```
(n) => (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236
```

Can be written as:

```
function (n) { return (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236; }
```

This still does not name a function, but as we noted above, functions written with the function keyword have an optional 'something else.' Could that 'something else' name a function? Yes, of course. 33

Here are our example functions written with names:

```
const repeat = function repeat (str) { return str + str; }; const fib = function fib (n) { return (1.618**n - -1.618**-n) / 2.236; };
```

Placing a name between the function keyword and the argument list names the function. Confusingly, the name of the function is not exactly the same thing as the name we may choose to bind to the value of the function. For example, we can write:

```
const double = function repeat (str) { return str + str; }
```

In this expression, double is the name in the environment, but repeat is the function's actual name. This is a named function expression . That may seem confusing, but think of the binding names as properties of the environment, not of the function. While the name of the function is a property of the function, not of the environment.

And indeed the name is a property:

```
double .name //=> 'repeat'
```

In this book we are not examining JavaScript's tooling such as debuggers baked into browsers, but we will note that when you are navigating call stacks in all modern tools, the function's binding name is ignored but its actual name is displayed, so naming functions is very useful even if they don't get a formal binding, e.g.

33 'Yes of course?' Well, in chapter of a book dedicated to naming functions, it is not surprising that feature we mention has something to do with naming functions.

```
someBackboneView.on('click', function clickHandler () { //... });
```

Now, the function's actual name has no effect on the environment in which it is used. To whit:

```
const bindingName = function actualName () { //... }; bindingName //=> [Function: actualName] actualName //=> ReferenceError: actualName is not defined
```

So 'actualName' isn't bound in the environment where we use the named function expression. Is it bound anywhere else? Yes it is. Here's a function that determines whether a positive integer is even or not. We'll use it in an IIFE so that we don't have to bind it to a name with const :

```
( function even (n) { if (n === 0) { return true } else return !even(n - 1) })(5) //=> false ( function even (n) { if (n === 0) { return true } else return !even(n - 1) })(2) //=> true
```

Clearly, the name even is bound to the function within the function's body . Is it bound to the function outside of the function's body?

```
even //=> Can't find variable: even
```

even is bound within the function itself, but not outside it. This is useful for making recursive functions as we see above, and it speaks to the principle of least privilege: If you don't need to name it anywhere else, you needn't.