# partial application

Another basic building block is partial application . When a function takes multiple arguments, we 'apply' the function to the arguments by evaluating it with all of the arguments, producing a value. But what if we only supply some of the arguments? In that case, we can't get the final value, but we can get a function that represents part of our application.

Code is easier than words for this. The Underscore 39 library provides a higher-order function called map . 40 It applies another function to each element of an array, like this:

```
_.map([1, 2, 3], (n) => n * n) //=> [1, 4, 9]
```

We don't want to fool around writing _. , so we can use it by writing: 41

This code implements a partial application of the map function by applying the function (n) => n * n as its second argument:

```
const squareAll = (array) => map(array, (n) => n * n);
```

The resulting functionsquareAll -is still the map function, it's just that we've applied one of its two arguments already. squareAll is nice, but why write one function every time we want to partially apply a function to a map? We can abstract this one level higher. mapWith takes any function as an argument and returns a partially applied map function.

```
const mapWith = (fn) => (array) => map(array, fn); const squareAll = mapWith((n) => n * n); squareAll([1, 2, 3]) //=> [1, 4, 9]
```

We'll discuss mapWith again. The important thing to see is that partial application is orthogonal to composition, and that they both work together nicely:

39 http://underscorejs.org

41 If we don't want to sort out Underscore, we can also write the following: const map = (a, fn) => a.map(fn); , and trust that it works even though we haven't discussed methods yet.

40 Modern JavaScript implementations provide a map method for arrays, but Underscore's implementation also works with older browsers if you are working with that headache.

```
const safeSquareAll = mapWith(maybe((n) => n * n));
```

```
safeSquareAll([1, null , 2, 3]) //=> [1, null, 4, 9]
```

Wegeneralized composition with the compose combinator. Partial application also has a combinator, which we'll see in the partial recipe.