# the function keyword

There are two separate rules for these 'magic' names, one for when you invoke a function using the function keyword, and another for functions defined with 'fat arrows.' We'll begin with how things work for functions defined with the function keyword.

The first magic name is this , and it is bound to something called the function's context. We will explore this in more detail when we start discussing objects and classes. The second magic name is very interesting, it's called arguments , and the most interesting thing about it is that it contains a list of arguments passed to a function:

```
const plus = function (a, b) { return arguments[0] + arguments[1]; } plus(2,3) //=> 5
```

Although arguments looks like an array, it isn't an array: It's more like an object 43 that happens to bind some values to properties with names that look like integers starting with zero:

```
const args = function (a, b) { return arguments; } args(2,3) //=> { '0': 2, '1': 3 }
```

arguments always contains all of the arguments passed to a function, regardless of how many are declared. Therefore, we can write plus like this:

42 You should never attempt to define your own bindings against 'magic' names that JavaScript binds for you. It is wise to treat them as read-only at all times.

43 We'll look at arrays and plain old javascript objects in depth later.

```
const plus = function () { return arguments[0] + arguments[1]; } plus(2,3) //=> 5
```

When discussing objects, we'll discuss properties in more depth. Here's something interesting about arguments :

```
const howMany = function () { return arguments['length']; } howMany() //=> 0 howMany('hello') //=> 1 howMany('sharks', 'are', 'apex', 'predators') //=> 4
```

The most common use of the arguments binding is to build functions that can take a variable number of arguments. We'll see it used in many of the recipes, starting off with partial application and ellipses.