# truthiness and the ternary operator

In JavaScript, there is a notion of 'truthiness.' Every value is either 'truthy' or 'falsy.' Obviously, false is falsy. So are null and undefined , values that semantically represent 'no value.' NaN is falsy, a value representing the result of a calculation that is not a number. 54 And there are more: 0 is falsy, a value representing 'none of something.' The empty string, '' is falsy, a value representing having no characters.

Every other value in JavaScript is 'truthy' except the aforementioned false , null , undefined , NaN , 0 , and '' . (Many other languages that have a notion of truthiness consider zero and the empty string to be truthy, not falsy, so beware of blindly transliterating code from one language to another!)

The reason why truthiness matters is that the various logical operators (as well as the if statement) actually operate on truthiness , not on boolean values. This affects the way the ! , && , and || operators work. We'll look at them in a moment, but first, we'll look at one more operator.

JavaScript inherited an operator from the C family of languages, the ternary operator. It's the only operator that takes three arguments. It looks like this: first ? second : third . It evaluates first , and if first is 'truthy', it evaluates second and that is its value. If first is not truthy, it evaluates third and that is its value.

54 We will not discuss JavaScript's numeric behaviour in much depth in this book, but the most important thing to know is that it implements the IEEE Standard for Floating-Point Arithmetic (IEEE 754), a technical standard for floating-point computation established in 1985 by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE).

This is a lot like the if statement, however it is an expression , not a statement, and that can be very valuable. It also doesn't introduce braces, and that can be a help or a hindrance if we want to introduce a new scope or use statements.

Here're some simple examples of the ternary operator:

```
true ? 'Hello' : 'Good bye' //=> 'Hello' 0 ? 'Hello' : 'Good bye' //=> 'Good bye' [1, 2, 3, 4, 5].length === 5 ? 'Pentatonic' : 'Quasimodal' //=> 'Pentatonic'
```

The fact that either the second or the third (but not both) expressions are evaluated can have important repercussions. Consider this hypothetical example:

```
const status = isAuthorized(currentUser) ? deleteRecord(currentRecord) : 'Forbid\ den';
```

Wecertainly don't want JavaScript trying to evaluate deleteRecord(currentRecord) unless isAuthorized(currentUser) returns true .