# truthiness and operators

Our logical operators ! , && , and || are a little more subtle than our examples above implied. ! is the simplest. It always returns false if its argument is truthy, and true is its argument is not truthy:

```
!5 //=> false ! undefined //=> true
```

Programmers often take advantage of this behaviour to observe that !!(someExpression) will always evaluate to true is someExpression is truthy, and to false if it is not. So in JavaScript (and other languages with similar semantics), when you see something like !!currentUser() , this is an idiom that means 'true if currentUser is truthy.' Thus, a function like currentUser() is free to return null , or undefined , or false if there is no current user.

Thus, !! is the way we write 'is truthy' in JavaScript. How about && and || ? What haven't we discussed?

First, and unlike ! , && and || do not necessarily evaluate to true or false . To be precise:

- && evaluates its left-hand expression.

-If its left-hand expression evaluates to something falsy, && returns the value of its lefthand expression without evaluating its right-hand expression.

-If its left-hand expression evaluates to something truthy, && evaluates its right-hand expression and returns the value of the right-hand expression.

- || evaluates its left-hand expression.

-If its left-hand expression evaluates to something truthy, || returns the value of its lefthand expression without evaluating its right-hand expression.

-If its left-hand expression evaluates to something false, || evaluates its right-hand expression and returns the value of the right-hand expression.

If we look at our examples above, we see that when we pass true and false to && and || , we do indeed get true or false as a result. But when we pass other values, we no longer get true or false :

```
1 || 2 //=> 1 null && undefined //=> null undefined && null //=> undefined
```

In JavaScript, && and || aren't boolean logical operators in the logical sense. They don't operate strictly on logical values, and they don't commute: a || b is not always equal to b || a , and the same goes for && .

This is not a subtle distinction.