# Self-Similarity

Recursion is the root of computation since it trades description for time.-Alan Perlis, Epigrams in Programming 60

In Arrays and Destructuring Arguments, we worked with the basic idea that putting an array together with a literal array expression was the reverse or opposite of taking it apart with a destructuring assignment.

We saw that the basic idea that putting an array together with a literal array expression was the reverse or opposite of taking it apart with a destructuring assignment.

Let's be more specific. Some data structures, like lists, can obviously be seen as a collection of items. Some are empty, some have three items, some forty-two, some contain numbers, some contain strings, some a mixture of elements, there are all kinds of lists.

But we can also define a list by describing a rule for building lists. One of the simplest, and longeststanding in computer science, is to say that a list is:

- Empty, or;

- Consists of an element concatenated with a list .

Let's convert our rules to array literals. The first rule is simple: [] is a list. How about the second rule? We can express that using a spread. Given an element e and a list list , [e, ...list] is a list. We can test this manually by building up a list:

```
[] //=> [] ["baz", ...[]] //=> ["baz"] ["bar", ...["baz"]] //=> ["bar","baz"] ["foo", ...["bar", "baz"]] //=> ["foo","bar","baz"]
```

Thanks to the parallel between array literals + spreads with destructuring + rests, we can also use the same rules to decompose lists:

60 http://www.cs.yale.edu/homes/perlis-alan/quotes.html

61

```
const [first, ...rest] = []; first //=> undefined rest //=> []: const [first, ...rest] = ["foo"]; first //=> "foo" rest //=> [] const [first, ...rest] = ["foo", "bar"]; first //=> "foo" rest //=> ["bar"] const [first, ...rest] = ["foo", "bar", "baz"]; first //=> "foo" rest //=> ["bar","baz"] For the purpose of this exploration, we will presume the following: const isEmpty = ([first, ...rest]) => first === undefined ;
```

```
isEmpty([]) //=> true isEmpty([0]) //=> false isEmpty([[]]) //=> false
```

Armed with our definition of an empty list and with what we've already learned, we can build a great many functions that operate on arrays. We know that we can get the length of an array using its .length . But as an exercise, how would we write a length function using just what we have already?

61 Well, actually, this does not work for arrays that contain undefined as a value, but we are not going to see that in our examples. A more robust implementation would be (array) => array.length === 0 , but we are doing backflips to keep this within a very small and contrived playground.

First, we pick what we call a terminal case . What is the length of an empty array? 0 . So let's start our function with the observation that if an array is empty, the length is 0 :

```
const length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === undefined ? 0 : // ???
```

We need something for when the array isn't empty. If an array is not empty, and we break it into two pieces, first and rest , the length of our array is going to be length(first) + length(rest) . Well, the length of first is 1 , there's just one element at the front. But we don't know the length of rest . If only there was a function we could call… Like length !

```
const length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === undefined ? 0 : 1 + length(rest); Let's try it! length([]) //=> 0 length(["foo"]) //=> 1 length(["foo", "bar", "baz"])
```

```
//=> 3
```

Our length function is recursive , it calls itself. This makes sense because our definition of a list is recursive, and if a list is self-similar, it is natural to create an algorithm that is also self-similar.