# tail-call optimization

A'tail-call' occurs when a function's last act is to invoke another function, and then return whatever the other function returns. For example, consider the maybe function decorator:

```
const maybe = (fn) => function (...args) { if (args.length === 0) { return ; } else { for ( let arg of args) { if (arg == null ) return ; } return fn.apply( this , args); } }
```

There are three places it returns. The first two don't return anything, they don't matter. But the third is fn.apply(this, args) . This is a tail-call, because it invokes another function and returns its result. This is interesting, because after sorting out what to supply as arguments ( this , args ), JavaScript can throw away everything in its current stack frame. It isn't going to do any more work, so it can throw its existing stack frame away.

And in fact, it does exactly that: It throws the stack frame away, and does not consume extra memory when making a maybe -wrapped call. This is a very important characteristic of JavaScript: If a function makes a call in tail position, JavaScript optimizes away the function call overhead and stack space.

That is excellent, but one wrapping is not a big deal. When would we really care? Consider this implementation of length :

```
const length = ([first, ...rest]) => first === undefined ? 0 : 1 + length(rest);
```

The length function calls itself, but it is not a tail-call, because it returns 1 + length(rest) , not length(rest) .

The problem can be stated in such a way that the answer is obvious: length does not call itself in tail position, because it has to do two pieces of work, and while one of them is in the recursive call to length , the other happens after the recursive call.

The obvious solution?