# some history

Once upon a time, there was a programming language called Lisp 65 , an acronym for LISt Processing. 66 Lisp was one of the very first high-level languages, the very first implementation was written for the IBM 704 67 computer. (The very first FORTRAN implementation was also written for the 704).

The 704 had a 36-bit word, meaning that it was very fast to store and retrieve 36-bit values. The CPU's instruction set featured two important macros: CAR would fetch 15 bits representing the Contents of the Address part of the Register, while CDR would fetch the Contents of the Decrement part of the Register.

65 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lisp_

67 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IBM_704

66 Lisp is still very much alive, and one of the most interesting and exciting programming languages in use today is Clojure, a Lisp dialect that runs on the JVM, along with its sibling ClojureScript, Clojure that transpiles to JavaScript.

In broad terms, this means that a single 36-bit word could store two separate 15-bit values and it was very fast to save and retrieve pairs of values. If you had two 15-bit values and wished to write them to the register, the CONS macro would take the values and write them to a 36-bit word.

Thus, CONS put two values together, CAR extracted one, and CDR extracted the other. Lisp's basic data type is often said to be the list, but in actuality it was the 'cons cell,' the term used to describe two 15-bit values stored in one word. The 15-bit values were used as pointers that could refer to a location in memory, so in effect, a cons cell was a little data structure with two pointers to other cons cells.

Lists were represented as linked lists of cons cells, with each cell's head pointing to an element and the tail pointing to another cons cell.

Having these instructions be very fast was important to those early designers: They were working on one of the first high-level languages (COBOL and FORTRAN being the others), and computers in the late 1950s were extremely small and slow by today's standards. Although the 704 used core memory, it still used vacuum tubes for its logic. Thus, the design of programming languages and algorithms was driven by what could be accomplished with limited memory and performance.

Here's the scheme in JavaScript, using two-element arrays to represent cons cells:

```
const cons = (a, d) => [a, d], car = ([a, d]) => a, cdr = ([a, d]) => d;
```

We can make a list by calling cons repeatedly, and terminating it with null :

```
const oneToFive = cons(1, cons(2, cons(3, cons(4, cons(5, null )))));
```

```
oneToFive //=> [1,[2,[3,[4,[5,null]]]]]
```

Notice that though JavaScript displays our list as if it is composed of arrays nested within each other like Russian Dolls, in reality the arrays refer to each other with references, so [1,[2,[3,[4,[5,null]]]]] is actually more like:

```
const node5 = [5, null ], node4 = [4, node5], node3 = [3, node4], node2 = [2, node3], node1 = [1, node2]; const oneToFive = node1;
```

This is a Linked List 68 , it's just that those early Lispers used the names car and cdr after the hardware instructions, whereas today we use words like data and reference . But it works the same way: If we want the head of a list, we call car on it:

```
car(oneToFive) //=> 1
```

car is very fast, it simply extracts the first element of the cons cell.

But what about the rest of the list? cdr does the trick:

```
cdr(oneToFive) //=> [2,[3,[4,[5,null]]]]
```

Again, it's just extracting a reference from a cons cell, it's very fast. In Lisp, it's blazingly fast because it happens in hardware. There's no making copies of arrays, the time to cdr a list with five elements is the same as the time to cdr a list with 5,000 elements, and no temporary arrays are needed. In JavaScript, it's still much, much, much faster to get all the elements except the head from a linked list than from an array. Getting one reference to a structure that already exists is faster than copying a bunch of elements.

So now we understand that in Lisp, a lot of things use linked lists, and they do that in part because it was what the hardware made possible.

Getting back to JavaScript now, when we write [first, ...rest] to gather or spread arrays, we're emulating the semantics of car and cdr , but not the implementation. We're doing something laborious and memory-inefficient compared to using a linked list as Lisp did and as we can still do if we choose.

That being said, it is easy to understand and helps us grasp how literals and destructuring works, and how recursive algorithms ought to mirror the self-similarity of the data structures they manipulate. And so it is today that languages like JavaScript have arrays that are slow to split into the equivalent of a car / cdr pair, but instructional examples of recursive programs still have echoes of their Lisp origins.

We'll look at linked lists again when we look at Plain Old JavaScript Objects.

68 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Linked_list