# Reassignment

Like some imperative programming languages, JavaScript allows you to re-assign the value bound to parameters. We saw this earlier in rebinding:

By default, JavaScript permits us to rebind new values to names bound with a parameter. For example, we can write:

```
const evenStevens = (n) => { if (n === 0) { return true ; } else if (n == 1) { return false ; } else { n = n - 2; return evenStevens(n); } } evenStevens(42) //=> true
```

The line n = n -2; rebinds a new value to the name n . We will discuss this at much greater length in Reassignment, but long before we do, let's try a similar thing with a name bound using const . We've already bound evenStevens using const , let's try rebinding it:

```
evenStevens = (n) => { if (n === 0) { return true ; } else if (n == 1) { return false ; } else { return evenStevens(n - 2); } } //=> ERROR, evenStevens is read-only
```

JavaScript does not permit us to rebind a name that has been bound with const . We can shadow it by using const to declare a new binding with a new function or block scope, but we cannot rebind a name that was bound with const in an existing scope.

Rebinding parameters is usually avoided, but what about rebinding names we declare within a function? What we want is a statement that works like const , but permits us to rebind variables. JavaScript has such a thing, it's called let :

```
let age = 52; age = 53; age //=> 53
```

We took the time to carefully examine what happens with bindings in environments. Let's take the time to explore what happens with reassigning values to variables. The key is to understand that we are rebinding a different value to the same name in the same environment.

So let's consider what happens with a shadowed variable:

```
(() => { let age = 49; if ( true ) { let age = 50; } return age; })() //=> 49
```

Using let to bind 50 to age within the block does not change the binding of age in the outer environment because the binding of age in the block shadows the binding of age in the outer environment, just like const . We go from:

```
{age: 49, '..': global-environment} To: {age: 50, '..': {age: 49, '..': global-environment}} Then back to:
```

```
{age: 49, '..': global-environment}
```

However, if we don't shadow age with let , reassigning within the block changes the original:

```
(() => { let age = 49; if ( true ) { age = 50; } return age; })() //=> 50
```

Like evaluating variable labels, when a binding is rebound, JavaScript searches for the binding in the current environment and then each ancestor in turn until it finds one. It then rebinds the name in that environment.