# Making Data Out Of Functions

Coffee served at the CERN particle accelerator

In our code so far, we have used arrays and objects to represent the structure of data, and we have extensively used the ternary operator to write algorithms that terminate when we reach a base case. For example, this length function uses a functions to bind values to names, POJOs to structure nodes, and the ternary function to detect the base case, the empty list.

```
const EMPTY = {}; const OneTwoThree = { first: 1, rest: { first: 2, rest: { first: 3, rest: EMPTY \ } } }; OneTwoThree.first //=> 1 OneTwoThree.rest.first //=> 2 OneTwoThree.rest.rest.first //=> 3 const length = (node, delayed = 0) => node === EMPTY ? delayed : length(node.rest, delayed + 1); length(OneTwoThree) //=> 3
```

A very long time ago, mathematicians like Alonzo Church, Moses Schönfinkel, Alan Turning, and Haskell Curry and asked themselves if we really needed all these features to perform computations. They searched for a radically simpler set of tools that could accomplish all of the same things.

They established that arbitrary computations could be represented a small set of axiomatic components. For example, we don't need arrays to represent lists, or even POJOs to represent nodes in a linked list. We can model lists just using functions.

To Mock a Mockingbird 76 established the metaphor of songbirds for the combinators, and ever since then logicians have called the K combinator a 'kestrel,' the B combinator a 'bluebird,' and so forth.

The oscin.es 77 library contains code for all of the standard combinators and for experimenting using the standard notation.

Let's start with some of the building blocks of combinatory logic, the K, I, and V combinators, nicknamed the 'Kestrel', the 'Idiot Bird', and the 'Vireo:'

76 http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/0192801422/ref=as_li_ss_tl?ie=UTF8&tag=raganwald001-20&linkCode=as2&camp=1789&creative= 390957&creativeASIN=0192801422

77 http://oscin.es

```
const K = (x) => (y) => x; const I = (x) => (x); const V = (x) => (y) => (z) => z(x)(y);
```