# the kestrel and the idiot

A constant function is a function that always returns the same thing, no matter what you give it. For example, (x) => 42 is a constant function that always evaluates to 42. The kestrel, or K , is a function that makes constant functions. You give it a value, and it returns a constant function that gives that value.

For example:

```
const K = (x) => (y) => x; const fortyTwo = K(42); fortyTwo(6) //=> 42 fortyTwo("Hello") //=> 42
```

The identity function is a function that evaluates to whatever parameter you pass it. So I(42) => 42 . Very simple, but useful. Now we'll take it one more step forward: Passing a value to K gets a function back, and passing a value to that function gets us a value.

Like so:

```
K(6)(7) //=> 6 K(12)(24) //=> 12
```

This is very interesting. Given two values, we can say that K always returns the first value: K(x)(y) => x (that's not valid JavaScript, but it's essentially how it works).

Now, an interesting thing happens when we pass functions to each other. Consider K(I) . From what we just wrote, K(x)(y) => x So K(I)(x) => I . Makes sense. Now let's tack one more invocation on: What is K(I)(x)(y) ? If K(I)(x) => I , then K(I)(x)(y) === I(y) which is y .

```
Therefore, K(I)(x)(y) => y :
```

```
K(I)(6)(7) //=> 7 K(I)(12)(24) //=> 24
```

Aha! Given two values, K(I) always returns the second value.

```
K("primus")("secundus") //=> "primus" K(I)("primus")("secundus") //=> "secundus"
```

If we are not feeling particularly academic, we can name our functions:

```
const first = K, second = K(I); first("primus")("secundus") //=> "primus" second("primus")("secundus") //=> "secundus"
```

This is very interesting. Given two values, we can say that K always returns the first value, and given two values, K(I) always returns the second value.