# the vireo

Given that our latin data is represented as the function (selector) => selector("primus")("secundus") , our obvious next step is to make a function that makes data. For arrays, we'd write cons = (first, second) => [first, second] . For objects we'd write: cons = (first, second) => {first, second} . In both cases, we take two parameters, and return the form of the data.

For 'data' we access with K and K(I) , our 'structure' is the function (selector) => selector("primus")("secundus") . Let's extract those into parameters:

```
(first, second) => (selector) => selector(first)(second)
```

For consistency with the way combinators are written as functions taking just one parameter, we'll curry 78 the function:

```
(first) => (second) => (selector) => selector(first)(second)
```

Let's try it, we'll use the word pair for the function that makes data (When we need to refer to a specific pair, we'll use the name aPair by default):

```
const first = K, second = K(I), pair = (first) => (second) => (selector) => selector(first)(second); const latin = pair("primus")("secundus"); latin(first) //=> "primus" latin(second) //=> "secundus"
```

It works! Now what is this pair function? If we change the names to x , y , and z , we get: (x) => (y) => (z) => z(x)(y) . That's the V combinator, the Vireo! So we can write:

78 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Currying

```
const first = K, second = K(I), pair = V; const latin = pair("primus")("secundus"); latin(first) //=> "primus" latin(second) //=> "secundus"
```

As an aside, the Vireo is a little like JavaScript's .apply function. It says, 'take these two values and apply them to this function.' There are other, similar combinators that apply values to functions. One notable example is the 'thrush' or T combinator: It takes one value and applies it to a function. It is known to most programmers as .tap .

Armed with nothing more than K , I , and V , we can make a little data structure that holds two values, the cons cell of Lisp and the node of a linked list. Without arrays, and without objects, just with functions. We'd better try it out to check.