# a return to backward thinking

To make pairs work, we did things backwards , we passed the first and rest functions to the pair, and the pair called our function. As it happened, the pair was composed by the vireo (or V combinator): (x) => (y) => (z) => z(x)(y) .

But we could have done something completely different. We could have written a pair that stored its elements in an array, or a pair that stored its elements in a POJO. All we know is that we can pass the pair function a function of our own, at it will be called with the elements of the pair.

The exact implementation of a pair is hidden from the code that uses a pair. Here, we'll prove it:

```
const first = K, second = K(I), pair = (first) => (second) => { const pojo = {first, second}; return (selector) => selector(pojo.first)(pojo.second); }; const latin = pair("primus")("secundus"); latin(first) //=> "primus" latin(second) //=> "secundus"
```

This is a little gratuitous, but it makes the point: The code that uses the data doesn't reach in and touch it: The code that uses the data provides some code and asks the data to do something with it.

The same thing happens with our lists. Here's length for lists:

```
const length = (list) => list( () => 0, (aPair) => 1 + length(aPair(pairRest))) );
```

We're passing list what we want done with an empty list, and what we want done with a list that has at least one element. We then ask list to do it, and provide a way for list to call the code we pass in.

We won't bother here, but it's easy to see how to swap our functions out and replace them with an array. Or a column in a database. This is fundamentally not the same thing as this code for the length of a linked list:

```
const length = (node, delayed = 0) => node === EMPTY ? delayed : length(node.rest, delayed + 1);
```

The line node === EMPTY presumes a lot of things. It presumes there is one canonical empty list value. It presumes you can compare these things with the === operator. We can fix this with an isEmpty function, but now we're pushing even more knowledge about the structure of lists into the code that uses them.

Having a list know itself whether it is empty hides implementation information from the code that uses lists. This is a fundamental principle of good design. It is a tenet of Object-Oriented Programming, but it is not exclusive to OOP: We can and should design data structures to hide implementation information from the code that use them, whether we are working with functions, objects, or both.

There are many tools for hiding implementation information, and we have now seen two particularly powerful patterns:

- Instead of directly manipulating part of an entity, pass it a function and have it call our function with the part we want.

- And instead of testing some property of an entity and making a choice of our own with ?: (or if ), pass the entity the work we want done for each case and let it test itself.