# javascript's generators

It would be very nice if we could sometimes write iterators as a .next() method that gets called, and sometimes write out a generator. Given the title of this chapter, it is not a surprise that JavaScript makes this possible.

We can write an iterator, but use a generation style of programming. An iterator written in a generation style is called a generator . To write a generator, we write a function, but we make two changes:

- We declare the function using the function * syntax. Not a fat arrow. Not a plain function .

- We don't return values or output them to console.log . We 'yield' values using the yield keyword.

Whenweinvokethe function, we get an iterator object back. Let's start with the degenerate example, the empty iterator : 91

```
function * empty () {}; empty().next() //=> {"done": true }
```

When we invoke empty , we get an iterator with no elements. This makes sense, because empty never yields anything. We call its .next() method, but it's done immediately.

Generator functions can take an argument. Let's use that to illustrate yield :

91 Wewrote a generator declaration . We can also write const empty = function * () {} to bind an anonymous generator to the empty keyword, but we don't need to do that here.

```
function * only (something) { yield something; }; only("you").next() //=> {"done": false , value: "you"}
```

Invoking only("you") returns an iterator that we can call with .next() , and it yields "you" . Invoking only more than once gives us fresh iterators each time:

```
only("you").next() //=> {"done": false , value: "you"} only("the lonely").next() //=> {"done": false , value: "the lonely"}
```

We can invoke the same iterator twice:

```
const sixteen = only("sixteen"); sixteen.next() //=> {"done": false , value: "sixteen"} sixteen.next() //=> {"done": true }
```

It yields the value of something , and then it's done.