# the carpenter's solution

The Carpenter was not surprised at the problem. Bob Plissken was a crafty, almost reptilian recruiter that traded in information and secrets. Whenever Bob sent a candidate to a job interview, he debriefed them afterwards and got them to disclose what questions were asked in the interview. He then coached subsequent candidates to give polished answers to the company's pet technical questions.

And just as companies often pick a problem that gives them broad latitude for discussing alternate approaches and determining that depth of a candidate's experience, The Carpenter liked to sketch out solutions that provided an opportunity to judge the interviewer's experience and provide an easy excuse to discuss the company's approach to software design.

Bob had, in fact, warned The Carpenter that 'Thing' liked to ask either or both of two questions: Determine how to detect a loop in a linked list, and determine whether the chequerboard game would halt. To save time, The Carpenter had prepared the same answer for both questions.

The Carpenter coughed softly, then began. 'To begin with, I'll transform a game into an iterable that generates arrows, using the 'Starman' notation for generators. I'll refactor a touch to make things clearer, for example I'll extract the board to make it easier to test:'

```
const MOVE = { "￿": ([x, y]) => [x - 1, y], "￿": ([x, y]) => [x + 1, y], "￿": ([x, y]) => [x, y + 1], "￿": ([x, y]) => [x, y - 1] }; const Board = (size = 8) => { // initialize the board const board = []; for ( let i = 0; i < size; ++i) { board[i] = []; for ( let j = 0; j < size; ++j) { board[i][j] = '￿￿￿￿'[Math.floor(Math.random() * 4)]; } } // initialize the position const position = [
```

```
Math.floor(Math.random() * size), Math.floor(Math.random() * size) ]; return {board, position}; }; const Game = ({board, position}) => { const size = board[0].length; return ({ *[Symbol.iterator] () { let [x, y] = position; while (x >= 0 && y >=0 && x < size && y < size) { const direction = board[y][x]; yield direction; [x, y] = MOVE[direction]([x, y]); } } }); };
```

'Now that we have an iterable, we can transform the iterable of arrows into an iterable of positions.' The Carpenter sketched quickly. 'We want to take the arrows and convert them to positions. For that, we'll map the Game iterable to positions. A statefulMap is a lazy map that preserves state from iteration to iteration. That's what we need, because we need to know the current position to map each move to the next position.'

'This is a standard idiom we can obtain from libraries, we don't reinvent the wheel. I'll show it here for clarity:'

```
const statefulMapWith = (fn, seed, iterable) => ({ *[Symbol.iterator] () { let value, state = seed; for ( let element of iterable) { [state, value] = fn(state, element); yield value;
```

```
} } });
```

'Armed with this, it's straightforward to map an iterable of directions to an iterable of strings representing positions:'

```
const positionsOf = (game) => statefulMapWith( (position, direction) => { const [x, y] = MOVE[direction](position); position = [x, y]; return [position, `x: ${ x } , y: ${ y } `]; }, [0, 0], game);
```

The Carpenter reflected. 'Having turned our game loop into an iterable, we can now see that our problem of whether the game terminates is isomorphic to the problem of detecting whether the positions given ever repeat themselves: If the chequer ever returns to a position it has previously visited, it will cycle endlessly. '

'We could draw positions as nodes in a graph, connected by arcs representing the arrows. Detecting whether the game terminates is equivalent to detecting whether the graph contains a cycle.'

The Tortoise and the Hare

'There's an old joke that a mathematician is someone who will take a five-minute problem, then spend an hour proving it is equivalent to another problem they have already solved. I approached this question in that spirit. Now that we have created an iterable of values that can be compared with === , I can show you this function:'

```
const tortoiseAndHare = (iterable) => { const hare = iterable[Symbol.iterator](); let hareResult = (hare.next(), hare.next()); for ( let tortoiseValue of iterable) { hareResult = hare.next(); if (hareResult.done) { return false ; } if (tortoiseValue === hareResult.value) { return true ; } hareResult = hare.next(); if (hareResult.done) { return false ; } if (tortoiseValue === hareResult.value) { return true ; } } return false ; };
```

'A long time ago,' The Carpenter explained, 'Someone asked me a question in an interview. I have never forgotten the question, or the general form of the solution. The question was, Given a linked list, detect whether it contains a cycle. Use constant space. '

'This is, of course, the most common solution, it is Floyd's cycle-finding algorithm 97 , although there is some academic dispute as to whether Robert Floyd actually discovered it or was misattributed by Knuth.'

'Thus, the solution to the game problem is:'

97 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cycle_detection#Tortoise_and_hare

```
const terminates = (game) => tortoiseAndHare(positionsOf(game)) const test = [ ["￿","￿","￿","￿"], ["￿","￿","￿","￿"], ["￿","￿","￿","￿"], ["￿","￿","￿","￿"] ]; terminates(Game({board: test, position: [0, 0]})) //=> false terminates(Game({board: test, position: [3, 0]})) //=> true terminates(Game({board: test, position: [0, 3]})) //=> false terminates(Game({board: test, position: [3, 3]})) //=> false
```

'This solution makes use of iterables and a single utility function, statefulMapWith . It also cleanly separates the mechanics of the game from the algorithm for detecting cycles in a graph.'