# the aftermath

The Carpenter sat down and waited. This type of solution provided an excellent opportunity to explore lazy versus eager evaluation, the performance of iterators versus native iteration, single responsibility design, and many other rich topics.

The Carpenter was confident that although nobody would write this exact code in production, prospective employers would also recognize that nobody would try to detect whether a chequer game terminates in production, either. It's all just a pretext for kicking off an interesting conversation, right?

Christine looked at the solution on the board, frowned, and glanced at the clock on the wall. ' Well, where has the time gone? '

'We at the Thing Software company are very grateful you made some time to visit with us, but alas, that is all the time we have today. If we wish to talk to you further, we'll be in touch.'

The Carpenter never did hear back from them, but the next day there was an email containing a generous contract from Friends of Ghosts ('FOG'), a codename for a stealth startup doing interesting work, and the Thing interview was forgotten.

Some time later, The Carpenter ran into Bob Plissken at a local technology meet-up. 'John! What happened at Thing?' Bob wanted to know, 'I asked them what they thought of you, and all they would say was, Writes unreadable code . I thought it was a lock! I thought you'd finally make your escape from New York.'

The Carpenter smiled. 'I forgot about them, it's been a while. So, do They Live?'

98