# after another drink

A few drinks later, The Carpenter was telling his Thing story and an engineer named Kidu introduced themself.

98 https://www.flickr.com/photos/jlhopgood/6795353385

'I worked at Thing, and Christine told us about your solution. I had a look at the code you left on the whiteboard. Of course, white-boarding in an interview situation is notoriously unreliable, so small defects are not important. But I couldn't help but notice that your solution doesn't actually meet the stated requirements for a different reason:'

'The hasCycle function, a/k/a Tortoise and Hare, requires two separate iterators to do its job. Whereas the problem as stated involves a single stream of directions. You're essentially calling for the player to clone themselves and call out the directions in parallel.'

The Carpenter thought about this for a moment. 'Kidu, you're right, that's a fantastic observation. I should have used a Teleporting Tortoise!'

```
// implements Teleporting Tortoise // cycle detection algorithm. const hasCycle = (iterable) => { let iterator = iterable[Symbol.iterator](), teleportDistance = 1; while ( true ) { let {value, done} = iterator.next(), tortoise = value; if (done) return false ; for ( let i = 0; i < teleportDistance; ++i) { let {value, done} = iterator.next(), hare = value; if (done) return false ; if (tortoise === hare) return true ; } teleportDistance *= 2; } return false ; };
```

Kidu shrugged. 'You know, the requirement asked for a finite space algorithm, not a constant state algorithm. Doesn't it make sense to go with a faster finite space algorithm? There's no benefit to constant space if finite space is sufficient. '

```
const hasCycle = (orderedCollection) => { const visited = new Set(); for ( let element of orderedCollection) { if (visited.has(element)) { return true ; } visited.add(element); } return false ; };
```

The Carpenter stared at Kidu's solution. 'I guess,' he allowed, 'It isn't always necessary to make a solution so awesome it would please the Ghosts of Mars.'