# Interactive Generators

We used generators to build iterators that maintain implicit state. We saw how to use them for recursive unfolds and state machines. But there are other times we want to build functions that maintain implicit state. Let's start by looking at a very simple example of a function that can be written statefully.

Coffee and Chess

Consider, for example, the moves in a game. The moves a player makes are a stream of values, just like the contents of an array can be consider a stream of values. But of course, iterating over a stream of moves requires us to wait for the game to be over so we know what moves were made.

Let's take a look at a very simple example, naughts and crosses 99 (We really ought to do something like Chess, but that might be a little out of scope for this chapter). To save space, we'll ignore rotations and reflections, and we'll model the first player's moves as a stream.

The first player will always be o , and they will always place their chequer in the top-left corner, coincidentally numbered o :

99 https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/naughts-and-crosses

The second player has five possible moves if we ignore reflections:

Let's consider move 1 . That produces this board:

We will always play into position 6 :

x has six possible moves, but they are really just two choices: 3 and anything else:

For 2 , 4 , 5 , 7 , or 8 , we play 3 and win. But if x moves 3 , we play 8 :

x now has three significant moves: 4 , 7 , and anything else:

If x plays 4 , we play 7 and win. If x plays anything else, including 7 , we play 4 and win.