# Document

## **Chapter 2 Units, Dimensional Analysis, and Estimation** 

**2.1 International System of Units ................................................................................ 3** 2.1.1 Definition of the second..................................................................................... 5 2.1.2 Definition of the meter....................................................................................... 7 2.1.3 Definition of the kilogram ................................................................................. 9 Example 2.1.3.1 Definition of the kilogram in terms of the SI constants................. 10 2.1.4 Definition of the ampere .................................................................................. 11 Example 2.1.4.1 Ampere .......................................................................................... 12 2.1.5 Definition of the kelvin.................................................................................... 12 2.1.5.1 Example Kelvin ............................................................................................ 12 2.1.6 Definition of the mole...................................................................................... 13 Example 2.1.6.1 Mole............................................................................................... 13 2.1.7 Radians............................................................................................................. 14 Example 2.1.7.1 Parsec............................................................................................. 16 2.1.8 Steradians......................................................................................................... 17 2.1.9 Definition of the candela.................................................................................. 17 Example 2.1.9.1 Candela .......................................................................................... 17 **2.2 Dimensions of Commonly Encountered Quantities........................................... 19** 2.2.1 Dimensions of Fundamental Constants ........................................................... 21 Example 2.2.1.1 Dimension of the Universal Gravitation Constant _G_ ................... 21 Example 2.2.1.2 Dimensions of Coulomb’s constant 1/ 4πε0 ................................. 21 Example 2.2.1.3 Dimensions of the Planck constant................................................ 22 **2.3 Dimensional Analysis............................................................................................ 23** Example 2.3.1 Period of a Pendulum........................................................................ 23 Example 2.3.3 Planck Length ................................................................................... 24 Example 2.3.3 Fine Structure Constant .................................................................... 26 Example 2.3.4 Rydberg constant .............................................................................. 27 **2.4 Order of Magnitude Estimates - Fermi Problems ............................................. 28** Methodology for Estimation Problems..................................................................... 29 

1

Example 2.4.1 Fermi’s Problem Piano Tuners......................................................... 29 Example 2.4.1 One Kilometer Line of Pennies ........................................................ 29 Example 2.4.3 Estimation of Mass of Water on Surface of Earth............................ 30 Example 2.4.4 Lao-Tzu’s Last Breath ...................................................................... 32 Example 2.4.5 Representation of the exponential function ...................................... 34 

2

## **Chapter 2 Units, Dimensional Analysis, and Estimation** 

_But we must not forget that all things in the world are connected with one another and depend on one another, and that we ourselves and all our thoughts are also a part of nature. It is utterly beyond our power to measure the changes of things by time. Quite the contrary, time is an abstraction, at which we arrive by means of the change of things; made because we are not restricted to any one definite measure, all being interconnected. A motion is termed uniform in which equal increments of space described correspond to equal increments of space described by some motion with which we form a comparison, as the rotation of the earth. A motion may, with respect to another motion, be uniform. But the question whether a motion is in itself uniform, is senseless. With just as little justice, also, may we speak of an “absolute time” --- of a time independent of change. This absolute time can be measured by comparison with no motion; it has therefore neither a practical nor a scientific value; and no one is justified in saying that he knows aught about it. It is an idle metaphysical conception._[1 ] 

_Ernst Mach_ 

## **2.1 International System of Units** 

The system of units most commonly used throughout science and technology today is the _Système International_ (SI). The seven _base quantities_ and their corresponding _base units,_ are shown in Table 2.1. 

**Table 2.1 Base Units** 

|Base Quantity|Base Unit|
|---|---|
|Time|second (s)|
|Length|meter(m)|
|Mass|kilogram (kg)|
|Electric Current|ampere (A)|
|Temperature|kelvin (K)|
|Amount of Substance|mole (mol)|
|LuminousIntensity|candela(cd)|



Many physical quantities are then derived from the base quantities by a set of algebraic relations defining the physical relation between these quantities. Mechanics is based on just the first three of these quantities, the second, the meter, and the kilogram, MKS or 

> 1 E. Mach, _The Science of Mechanics,_ translated by Thomas J. McCormack, Open Court Publishing Company, La Salle, Illinois, 1960, p. 273. 

3

meter-kilogram-second system. An alternative metric system, still widely used, is the CGS system (centimeter-gram-second). 

## **Example: Derived units for velocity, acceleration, force, energy, and power** 

Velocity is defined to be the rate of change of position with respect to time and therefore has the derived SI unit m ⋅s −1 . Acceleration is defined to be the rate of velocity with respect to time and therefore has the derived SI unit m ⋅s[−][2 ] . The _newton_ , symbol N , is the derived SI unit for force which is equal to the product of mass with acceleration. Therefore force has the derived SI unit kg ⋅ m ⋅s[−][2 ] . The _joule_ , symbol J , is the derived SI unit for energy which is equal to the product of force with distance _._ Therefore the derived SI unit for energy is kg ⋅ m[2 ] ⋅s −2 . The _watt_ , symbol W , is the derived SI unit for power which is equal to the rate of change of energy with respect to time _._ Therefore the derived SI unit for power is kg ⋅ m[2 ] ⋅s−3 . 

The base quantities were originally determined by experiment with uncertainties in their values. Gradually the base units were no longer defined by physical prototypes like the standard kilogram or standard meter bar but were defined by asset of constants. As of May 20, 2019, all the base SI units are now defined in terms of seven _constants_ shown in Table 2.2. 

**Table 2.2 Defining Constants** 

|Quantity|Symbol|NumericalValue|SIUnits|
|---|---|---|---|
|Cesium hyperfine<br>frequency|ΔνCs|9 192 631 770|−1<br>s|
|Speed of light in<br>vacuum|_c_|299 792 458|−1<br>m⋅s|
|Planck constant|_h_|6.626 070 15×10−34|−1<br>kg⋅ m2⋅s|
|Elementary charge|_e_|1.602 176 634×10−19|A⋅s|
|Boltzmann constant|_k_|1.380 649×10−23|−2⋅ K−1<br>kg ⋅ m2⋅s|
|Avogadro constant|_NA _|6.022 140 76×1023|mol|
|Luminous efficacy of a<br>defined visibleradiation|_K_cd|683|3<br>−2⋅s<br>cd⋅sr⋅kg−1⋅m|



4

The International Committee for Weights and Measures describes practical methods ( _mises en practique_ ) for “realizing” a unit”.[2] This means a method for the establishment of the value and associated uncertainty of a quantity of the same kind as the unit that is consistent with the definition of the unit. Any method that is traceable to the seven constants could be used. 

The future definition of a unit does not imply any particular experiment for its practical realization. Any method capable of deriving an amount of base quantity value traceable to the set of seven reference constants could, in principle, be used. A _primary method_ for realizing each unit is one that achieves the best precision and lowest uncertainty. 

In what follows, the exact language for the definitions of the constants and SI base units is used. The definitions specify the exact numerical value of each constant when its value is expressed in the corresponding SI unit. By fixing the exact numerical value the unit becomes defined, since the product of the _**numerical value**_ and the _**unit**_ has to equal the _**value**_ of the constant, which is postulated to be invariant. The seven constants are chosen in such a way that any unit of the SI can be written either through a defining constant itself or through products or quotients of defining constants.[3 ] 

## **2.1.1 Definition of the second** 

Isaac Newton, in the _Philosophiae Naturalis Principia Mathematica_ (“Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy”), distinguished between time as duration and an absolute concept of time, 

“ _Absolute true and mathematical time, of itself and from its own nature, flows equably without relation to anything external, and by another name is called duration: relative, apparent, and common time, is some sensible and external (whether accurate or unequable) measure of duration by means of motion, which is commonly used instead of true time; such as an hour, a day, a month, a year._ ”[4] . 

Before 1960, the second was defined as the fraction 1/ 86400 of the mean solar day, which varied due to slight changes in the earth rotation and so this was not a good definition. The development of clocks based on atomic oscillations allowed measures of 

timing with accuracy on the order of 1 part in 10[14 ] , corresponding to errors of less than one microsecond (one millionth of a second) per year. Given the incredible accuracy of 

> 2 https://www.bipm.org/en/publications/mises-en-pratique/ 

> 3 https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/base-units.html 

> 4 Isaac Newton. _Mathematical Principles of Natural Philosophy._ Translated by Andrew Motte (1729). Revised by Florian Cajori. Berkeley: University of California Press, 1934. p. 6. 

5

this measurement, and clear evidence that the best available timekeepers were atomic in nature, the _second_ [s] was defined in 1967 by the International Committee on Weights and Measures as a certain number of cycles of electromagnetic radiation emitted by cesium (or caesium) atoms as they make transitions between two designated quantum states: 

> _The second, symbol_ s , _is the SI unit of time. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of the cesium frequency_ ΔνCs _, the unperturbed ground-state hyperfine transition frequency of the cesium_ 133 _atom to be_ 9192 631770 _when expressed in the unit_ Hz _, which is equal to_ s −1 _. 5_ 

The second is equal to the duration of 9192 631770 periods of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the two hyperfine levels F = 4  and F = 3 of the ground state 6s1/2 of the cesium 133 atom. 

**==> picture [341 x 195] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
F  = 5<br>6p3/2  F  = 4<br>F  = 3<br>excited state<br>F  = 2<br>8.52124 nm<br>wavelength<br>of D transition<br>2<br>line<br>F = 4<br>6s<br>1/2  9192 631770 Hz<br>ground state  F = 3<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure:** Energy levels of Cesium atom, showing the hyperfine transition between the two hyperfine levels F = 4  and F = 3 of the ground state 6s1/2  and the wavelength of D2 line corresponding to the fine structure doublet transition 6s1/2 → 6p3/2 . 

The hyperfine frequency is exactly defined to be 

**==> picture [322 x 16] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [309 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

6

Therefore the unit second is equal to 

**==> picture [268 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

A _primary method_ to “realize” a second, the unit of time, with the highest accuracy involves certain national metrology laboratories that design _primary frequency standards._ The primary frequency standards aim at exactly realizing the SI second using the transition between the two hyperfine levels of the ground state of the cesium 133 atom, and for which corrections with respect to all known systematic shifts due to a variety of physical phenomena (gravitation is especially problematic in correcting for its effect) have been applied to best knowledge. The accuracy order of the best primary frequency standards that define the SI second approaches 1 part in 10[16 ] . 

The invention of the optical frequency comb made it possible to increase the “tic rate” of an atomic clock by a factor of one thousand or more, opening the way to replacing the cesium frequency standard by an optical frequency standard with uncertainty at the level of 1 part in 10[18 ] , using an atom such as strontium or ytterbium, or an ion such as ytterbium or aluminum.[6 ] 

## **2.1.2 Definition of the meter** 

The meter was originally defined as 1/10,000,000 of the arc from the Equator to the North Pole along the meridian passing through Paris. In 1889 the meter was redefined in terms of the international prototype meter by the 1st Conférence Générale des Poids et Mèsures (CGPM). The prototype meter was a platinum bar with an etched length scale to aid in calibration and ease of comparison, preserved near Paris. The accuracy of the bar was limited to one part in 10[7 ] . Effects of temperature and pressure needed to be precisely calibrated as well as the mounting in order to ensure that the bar was straight. 

In 1960 the CGPM introduced a microscopic reference by defining the meter as the length equal to 1650763.73 wavelengths in vacuum of the radiation corresponding to the transition between the levels 2p10 and 5d5 of the **krypton 86** atom. This definition of the meter depended on a particular radiation and cannot be realized to better than 4 parts in 10[9 ] . 

- **6** Andrew D. Ludlow, Martin M. Boyd, Jun Ye, E. Peik, and P. O. Schmidt **,** Rev. Mod. Phys. **87** , 637 

7

In 1983 the 17th CGPM defined the speed of light as a constant and the meter was redefined in terms of the distance that light traveled in 1/ 299 792 458 of a second. 

_The meter, symbol_ m , _is the SI unit of length. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical speed of light in vacuum c  to be_ 299 792 458 _when_ 

> _expressed in the unit_ m ⋅s[−][1 ] _, where the second is defined in terms of the cesium frequency_ ΔνCs _.[7 ]_ 

The definition of the speed of light states that 

**==> picture [271 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

The meter is therefore defined by 

**==> picture [270 x 23] intentionally omitted <==**

The second is defined by Eq. (2.2). Therefore Eq. (2.4) becomes 

**==> picture [352 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

This new definition, opens the way to major improvements in the precision with which the meter can be realized using laser wavelength and frequency measurement techniques. It is worth noting that the new definition has only become practicable with the development of techniques for the measurement of frequencies of electromagnetic radiations in the visible and near infrared. These can now be measured directly in terms of the frequency of the cesium standard which is used in the definition of the second.”[8 ] 

## **2.1.2.1 Worked Example: Krypton Frequency Transition** 

The experimental value for frequency of the transition between the levels 2p10 and 5d5 of the[86] Kr is equal to _f_ = 494886516.5 MHz . Using the definition of the speed of 

7 - - - https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/si mep/SI App2 metre.pdf 

> 1. 8 “Documents concerning the New Definition of the Metre”, Metrologia 19 (1984) 163. DOI: 10.1088/0026-1394/19/4/004 

8

light, _c_ = 299 792 458 m ⋅s[−][1 ] , (i) calculate the wavelength corresponding to this transition, (ii) How does this frequency compare to the frequency derived from the wavelength λKr = (1/1650763.73) m  in the 1960 definition of the meter? 

**==> picture [291 x 31] intentionally omitted <==**

(ii) In the 1960 definition, the wavelength was equal to λKr = (1/1650763.73) m . Using _c_ = 299 792 458 m ⋅s[−][1 ] . The frequency is then 

**==> picture [257 x 33] intentionally omitted <==**

## **2.1.3 Definition of the kilogram** 

The kilogram was the last base unit in the International System of Units (SI) that was replaced in Nov 18, 2018 by a new definition in terms of the constants. The old kilogram was a physical artifact, known as the “International Prototype of the Standard Kilogram.” George Matthey (of Johnson Matthey) made the prototype in 1879 in the form of a cylinder, 39 mm high and 39 mm in diameter, consisting of an alloy of 90 % platinum and 10 % iridium. The international prototype is kept in the Bureau International des Poids et Mèsures (BIPM) at Sevres, France, under conditions specified by the 1st Conférence Générale des Poids et Mèsures (CGPM) in 1889 when it sanctioned the prototype and declared “This prototype shall henceforth be considered to be the unit of mass.” It is stored at atmospheric pressure in a specially designed triple bell-jar. The prototype is kept in a vault with six official copies. 

The 3rd Conférence Générale des Poids et Mèsures CGPM (1901), in a declaration intended to end the ambiguity in popular usage concerning the word “weight” confirmed that: the kilogram is the unit of mass; it is equal to the mass of the international prototype of the kilogram. As of Nov 18, 2018, the kilogram is now defined as follows: 

> _The kilogram, symbol_ kg _, is the SI unit of mass. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of the Planck constant h  to be_ 6.62607015 × 10[−][34 ] _when expressed in the unit_ J ⋅s _, which is equal to_ kg ⋅ m[2 ] ⋅s[−][1] _where the meter and second are defined in terms of c  and_ ΔνCs _._ 

9

_Thus the Planck constant h is exactly h_ = 6.626 07015 × 10[−][34] J ⋅s _. This numerical value of h defines the unit joule second in the SI and, in combination with the SI second and meter, defines the kilogram. The numerical value of h given in the definition of the kilogram has ensured the continuity of the unit of mass with the previous definition of the kilogram.[9 ]_ 

## **Example 2.1.3.1 Definition of the kilogram in terms of the SI constants** 

Find an expression for the unit kilogram in terms of the defining constants _h_ , and ΔνCs . 

**Answer:** The Planck constant is exactly defined as 

**==> picture [359 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

Therefore the kilogram is defined to be 

**==> picture [300 x 26] intentionally omitted <==**

Using the definitions of the second (Eq. (2.2) and meter (Eq. (2.5)), Eq. (2.7) becomes 

**==> picture [392 x 37] intentionally omitted <==**

Therefore 

**==> picture [290 x 28] intentionally omitted <==**

Realizing the kilogram requires practical methods that are describes in an article in _Physics Today_ by Wolfgang Ketterle (MIT) and Alan Jamison (Institute for Quantum Computing at the University of Waterloo).[10] They begin by using the above definition to count photons and then describe a series of more practical methods. 

The internal energy _E_ of an object is proportional to the rest mass according to 

**==> picture [298 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

> 9 - - - https://www.bipm.org/utils/en/pdf/si mep/SI App2 kilogram.pdf 

> 10 https://physicstoday.scitation.org/doi/10.1063/PT.3.4472 

10

where _c_ is the speed of the light. The energy of a light particle (photon) is proportional to the frequency of oscillation of the monochromatic classical wave associated to the photon, 

**==> picture [249 x 26] intentionally omitted <==**

where _h_ is Planck’s constant. The photon is a massless particle but we can define an effective mass by equating Eqs. (2.10) and (2.11), 

**==> picture [242 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

yielding an effective mass 

**==> picture [238 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

**==> picture [433 x 99] intentionally omitted <==**

The number _N_ of photons, emitted due to the hyperfine transition between two hyperfine ground states of cesium-133 atoms, needed in order for their total mass to equal one kilogram is then 

**==> picture [321 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

> One kilogram is now equal to the mass of 1.4755214 × 10[40 ] photons at the cesium hyperfine frequency. 

**==> picture [294 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

## **2.1.4 Definition of the ampere** 

_The ampere, symbol_ A _, is the SI unit of electric current. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of the elementary charge e to be_ 

11

1.602176634 × 10[−][19] _when expressed in the unit_ C _, which is equal to_ A ⋅s _, where the second is defined in terms of_ ΔνCs _.[11 ]_ 

## **Example 2.1.4.1 Ampere** 

Find an expression for the unit ampere in terms of the defining constants _e_ and ΔνCs . 

**Answer:** The exact definition of the elementary charge is 

**==> picture [349 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

Therefore the unit ampere is defined to be 

**==> picture [391 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

Hence 

**==> picture [283 x 16] intentionally omitted <==**

## **2.1.5 Definition of the kelvin** 

_The kelvin, symbol_ K _, is the SI unit of thermodynamic temperature. It is defined by taking the fixed numerical value of the Boltzmann constant k to be_ 1.380649 × 10[−][23] _when expressed in the unit_ J ⋅ K[−][1 ] _, which is equal to_ kg ⋅ m[2 ] ⋅s −2K −1 _, where the kilogram, meter and second are defined in terms of h , c  and_ ΔνCs _._ 

> _This definition implies the exact relation k_ = 1.380649 × 10[−][23] J ⋅ K[−][1 ] _. Its effect is that one kelvin is equal to the change of thermodynamic temperature T that results in a change of thermal energy kT  by_ 1.380649 × 10[−][23] J _.[12 ]_ 

## **2.1.5.1 Example Kelvin** 

11 https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/base-units.html 12 https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/base-units.html 

12

Find an expression for the unit kelvin in terms of the defining constants _k_ , _h_ , _c_ and ΔνCs . 

**Answer:** The Boltzmann constant is exactly 

**==> picture [305 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

Therefore the unit kelvin is defined as 

**==> picture [347 x 169] intentionally omitted <==**

Using our above definitions for the kilogram, meter and second, Eq. (2.21) becomes 

One kelvin is then equal to 

**==> picture [283 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

## **2.1.6 Definition of the mole** 

_The mole, symbol_ mol _, is the SI unit of amount of substance. One mole contains exactly_ 6.02214076 × 10[23] _elementary entities. This number is the fixed numerical value of the Avogadro constant,_ N A _, when expressed in the unit_ mol[−][1] _and is called the_ _**Avogadro number.**_ 

_The amount of substance, symbol_ n _, of a system is a measure of the number of specified elementary entities. An elementary entity may be an atom, a molecule, an ion, an electron, any other particle or specified group of particles.[13 ]_ 

## **Example 2.1.6.1 Mole** 

13 https://www.bipm.org/en/measurement-units/base-units.html 

13