## Document

can now give a precise relationship for the number of pennies needed to mark off 1 kilometer 

**==> picture [299 x 29] intentionally omitted <==**

We can estimate a penny to be approximately 2 centimeters wide. Therefore the number of pennies is 

**==> picture [350 x 48] intentionally omitted <==**

When applying numbers to relationships we must be careful to convert units whenever necessary. How accurate is this estimation? If you measure the size of a penny, you will find out that the width is 1.9 cm , so our estimate was accurate to within 5%. This accuracy was fortuitous. Suppose we estimated the length of a penny to be 1 cm. Then our estimate for the total number of pennies would be within a factor of 2, a margin of error we can live with for this type of problem. 

## **Example 2.4.3 Estimation of Mass of Water on Surface of Earth** 

Estimate the mass of the water on the surface of the Earth. 

**Solution:** In this example we are estimating mass, a quantity that is a fundamental in SI units, and is measured in kg. We start by approximating that the amount of water on Earth is approximately equal to the amount of water in all the oceans. Initially we will try to estimate two quantities: the density of water and the volume of water contained in the oceans. Then the relationship we want is 

**==> picture [280 x 12] intentionally omitted <==**

One of the hardest aspects of estimation problems is to decide which relationship applies. One way to check your work is to check dimensions. Density has dimensions of mass/volume, so our relationship is correct dimensionally. 

The density of fresh water is ρ = 1.0 g ⋅cm[−][3 ] ; the density of seawater is slightly higher, but the difference won’t matter for this estimate. You could estimate this density by estimating how much mass is contained in a one-liter bottle of water. (The density of water is a point of reference for all density problems. Suppose we need to estimate the density of iron. If we compare iron to water, we might estimate that iron is 5 to 10 times denser than water. The actual density of iron is ρiron = 7.8 g ⋅ cm[-3 ] ). 

30

Because there is no precise relationship, estimating the volume of water in the oceans is much harder. Let’s model the volume occupied by the oceans as if the water completely covers the earth, forming a spherical shell of radius _RE_ and thickness _d_ (Figure 2.4, which is decidedly not to scale), where _RE_ is the radius of the earth and _d_ is the average depth of the ocean. The volume of that spherical shell is 

**==> picture [288 x 174] intentionally omitted <==**

**----- Start of picture text -----**<br>
2<br>volume ≅ 4π R earth  d  .  (2.17)<br>d<br>R<br>E<br>**----- End of picture text -----**<br>


**Figure 2.4** A model for estimating the mass of the water on the surface of the Earth. 

We also estimate that the oceans cover about 75% of the surface of the earth. So we can refine our estimate that the volume of the oceans is 

**==> picture [281 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

We therefore have two more quantities to estimate, the average depth of the ocean, which we can estimate as _d_ ≅ 1km , and the radius of the earth, which is approximately _RE_ ≅ 6 × 10[3] km . (The quantity that you may remember is the circumference of the earth, about 25,000 miles . Historically the circumference of the earth was defined to be 4 × 10[7 ] m ). The radius _RE_ and the circumference _s_ are exactly related by 

**==> picture [241 x 13] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus 

**==> picture [345 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

We will use _RE_ ≅ 6 × 10[3] km ; additional accuracy is not necessary for this problem, since the ocean depth estimate is clearly less accurate. In fact, the factor of 75%  is not 

31

needed, but included more or less from habit. Altogether, our estimate for the mass of the oceans is 

**==> picture [373 x 73] intentionally omitted <==**

An interesting question is what is the origin of this water? 

## **Example 2.4.4 Lao-Tzu’s Last Breath** 

What is the probability that none of the molecules in your next breath were in the last breath of Lao-Tzu (b. 551 B.C.E.), author of the _Tao Te Ching_ , who expired in 471 B.C.E.? 

**Answer:** We begin by making a few notational definitions. 

## Let _N_ be the number of molecules in a breath. 

> Let _p_ be the probability that one molecule in your next breath was contained in LaoTzu’s last breath. 

Let _q_ = 1 − _p_ be the probability that one molecule in your next breath was not contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath. 

The probability _P_ that none of the molecules in your next breath were contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath is therefore 

**==> picture [260 x 17] intentionally omitted <==**

We would like to estimate the number of molecules, _N_ , in a breath, and the probability, _p_ , that one molecule in your next breath was also contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath. We shall estimate the number of molecules in one breath by first estimating the volume _V_ breath of one breath, and then converting this to moles, _m_ , at STP (Standard Temperature and Pressure). I estimate that the volume of one breath is approximately 1 L. At STP, one mole of an ideal gas (which is a good approximation for the actual properties of air) occupies 22.4 L, so the number of moles of air in one breath is 

**==> picture [331 x 27] intentionally omitted <==**

Then we calculate the number of molecules, _N_ , in one breath to be 

32

**==> picture [388 x 18] intentionally omitted <==**

where _N A_ ≅ 6 × 10[23 ] molecules mole  is the Avogadro constant. 

> We shall estimate the probability _p_ as the ratio of the volume of a breath to the volume of the atmosphere: 

**==> picture [302 x 30] intentionally omitted <==**

> In order to estimate the volume _V_ atmo of the earth’s atmosphere, let’s assume that the atmosphere is a uniform spherical shell of thickness _t_ and radius _r_ ; this is the same model used for the volume of the oceans in another example. Then the volume of the shell is approximately 

**==> picture [251 x 15] intentionally omitted <==**

We need to make two estimations. Let’s suppose: 

- 1) the thickness of the shell is approximately _t_ ≅ 10km = 10[4 ] m ; 

- 2) the radius _r_ = _Re_ , the radius of the earth, which we estimate as _R_ ≅ 6 × 10[3 ] km = 6 × 10[6 ] m . _e_ 

> Note that we have _t_ = _Re_ , a necessary condition for using the spherical shell approximation as given above. Then our estimate for the volume of the earth’s atmosphere is 

**==> picture [347 x 117] intentionally omitted <==**

We estimated the volume of one breath as 1 L ; let’s convert this to cubic meters: 

So the probability that one specific molecule in your next breath was contained in LaoTzu’s last breath is estimated as 

33

**==> picture [356 x 32] intentionally omitted <==**

The probability, _q_ = 1 − _p_ , that one specific molecule in your next breath was not contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath, is essentially one: 

**==> picture [263 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

The total probability _P_ that none of the molecules in your next breath were contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath is then 

**==> picture [300 x 22] intentionally omitted <==**

or alternately, 

**==> picture [346 x 40] intentionally omitted <==**

To simplify the calculation, we can now use a representation for the exponential function (see Example 2.4.4. for a proof of this result), 

**==> picture [264 x 34] intentionally omitted <==**

Thus 

**==> picture [325 x 38] intentionally omitted <==**

So the probability _P_ is nearly zero that none of the molecules in your next breath were contained in Lao-Tzu’s last breath. From this, we see that it is certain that at least one molecule of air you inhale was in Lao-Tzu’s last gasp. 

Note one key assumption that we make in this problem: in 2500 years, the atmosphere has re-circulated to the point that Lao-Tzu’s final exhalation is equally distributed throughout the world. Recently, a 3 − km ice core sample had been drilled from the Antarctic ice sheet. What is the probability that an air bubble in the ice at the bottom of the sample contains an atom in Lao-Tzu’s final exhalation? 

## **Example 2.4.5 Representation of the exponential function** 

34

Show that 

Proof: Let’s begin by proving that 

**==> picture [263 x 111] intentionally omitted <==**

This is an indetermine form so we apply the Taylor formula to the numerator 

Then 

**==> picture [330 x 116] intentionally omitted <==**

Define _b[x]_ for all _b_ > 0  raised to any real number _x_ by 

**==> picture [239 x 14] intentionally omitted <==**

> Let _b_ = ln(1− _ay_ )  and ln(1− _ay_ )[1/ ] _[y ]_ = _e_[(1/ ] _[y]_[)ln(1][−] _[ay ]_[) ] . Thus 

> Let _y_ = 1/ _N_ . Then 

**==> picture [332 x 69] intentionally omitted <==**

35

MIT OpenCourseWare https://ocw.mit.edu 

## 8.01 Classical Mechanics 

Spring 2022 

For information about citing these materials or our Terms of Use, visit: https://ocw.mit.edu/terms. 

36